<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>5 Keys and Commands (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="5 Keys and Commands (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="5 Keys and Commands (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Entering-Emacs.xhtml" rel="next" title="6 Entering Emacs"/>
<link href="Mouse-Input.xhtml" rel="prev" title="4 Mouse Input"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Commands">

<h2 class="chapter section-level-set-chapter" id="Keys-and-Commands">5 Keys and Commands</h2>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-binding"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-command"></a>
<p>This manual is full of passages that tell you what particular keys
do.  But Emacs does not assign meanings to keys directly.  Instead,
Emacs assigns meanings to named <em class="dfn">commands</em>, and then gives keys
their meanings by <em class="dfn">binding</em> them to commands.
</p>
<p>Every command has a name chosen by a programmer.  The name is
usually made of a few English words separated by dashes; for example,
<code class="code">next-line</code> or <code class="code">forward-word</code>.  Internally, each command is
a special type of Lisp <em class="dfn">function</em>, and the actions associated with
the command are performed by running the function.  See <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/What-Is-a-Function.html#What-Is-a-Function">What Is a Function</a> in <cite class="cite">The Emacs Lisp Reference
Manual</cite>.
</p>
<p>The bindings between keys and commands are recorded in tables called
<em class="dfn">keymaps</em>.  See <a class="xref" href="Customization.xhtml#Keymaps">Keymaps</a>.
</p>
<p>When we say that &#8220;<kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> moves down vertically one line&#8221; we are
glossing over a subtle distinction that is irrelevant in ordinary use,
but vital for Emacs customization.  The command <code class="code">next-line</code> does
a vertical move downward.  <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> has this effect <em class="emph">because</em> it
is bound to <code class="code">next-line</code>.  If you rebind <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> to the command
<code class="code">forward-word</code>, <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> will move forward one word instead.
</p>
<p>In this manual, we will often speak of keys like <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> as
commands, even though strictly speaking the key is bound to a command.
Usually, we state the name of the command which really does the work
in parentheses after mentioning the key that runs it.  For example, we
will say that &#8220;The command <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> (<code class="code">next-line</code>) moves point
vertically down&#8221;, meaning that the command <code class="code">next-line</code> moves
vertically down, and the key <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> is normally bound to it.
</p>
<p>Since we are discussing customization, we should tell you about
<em class="dfn">variables</em>.  Often the description of a command will say, &#8220;To
change this, set the variable <code class="code">mumble-foo</code>.&#8221;  A variable is a
name used to store a value.  Most of the variables documented in this
manual are meant for customization: some command or other part of
Emacs examines the variable and behaves differently according to the
value that you set.  You can ignore the information about variables
until you are interested in customizing them.  Then read the basic
information on variables (see <a class="pxref" href="Customization.xhtml#Variables">Variables</a>) and the information about
specific variables will make sense.
</p>


</div>



</body>
</html>
