<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>54 Contributing to Emacs Development (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="54 Contributing to Emacs Development (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="54 Contributing to Emacs Development (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Service.xhtml" rel="next" title="55 How To Get Help with GNU Emacs"/>
<link href="Bugs.xhtml#Bugs" rel="prev" title="53 Reporting Bugs"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
ul.mark-bullet {list-style-type: disc}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Contributing">

<h2 class="chapter section-level-set-chapter" id="Contributing-to-Emacs-Development">54 Contributing to Emacs Development</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-contributing-to-Emacs"></a>

<p>Emacs is a collaborative project and we encourage contributions from
anyone and everyone.
</p>
<p>There are many ways to contribute to Emacs:
</p>
<ul class="itemize mark-bullet">
<li>find and report bugs; see <a class="pxref" href="Bugs.xhtml#Bugs">Reporting Bugs</a>.

</li><li>answer questions on the Emacs user mailing list
<a class="url" href="https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/help-gnu-emacs">https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/help-gnu-emacs</a>.

</li><li>write documentation, either on the <a class="uref" href="https://www.emacswiki.org/">wiki</a>, or in the Emacs source repository (see <a class="pxref" href="Bugs.xhtml#Sending-Patches">Sending Patches for GNU Emacs</a>).

</li><li>check if existing bug reports are fixed in newer versions of Emacs
<a class="url" href="https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/pkgreport.cgi?which=pkg&amp;data=emacs">https://debbugs.gnu.org/cgi/pkgreport.cgi?which=pkg&amp;data=emacs</a>.

</li><li>fix existing bug reports.

</li><li>implement a feature listed in the <samp class="file">etc/TODO</samp> file in the Emacs
distribution, and submit a patch.

</li><li>implement a new feature, and submit a patch.

</li><li>develop a package that works with Emacs, and publish it on your own
or in GNU ELPA (<a class="url" href="https://elpa.gnu.org/">https://elpa.gnu.org/</a>).

</li><li>port Emacs to a new platform, but that is not common nowadays.

</li></ul>

<p>If you would like to work on improving Emacs, please contact the maintainers at
<a class="url" href="https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/emacs-devel">the
emacs-devel mailing list</a>.
You can ask for suggested projects or suggest your own ideas.
</p>
<p>If you have a feature request or a suggestion for how to improve
Emacs, the best place to send it is to
<a class="url" href="https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/bug-gnu-emacs">bug-gnu-emacs</a>
.  Please explain as clearly as possible what change you would like to
see, and why and how you think it would improve Emacs.
</p>
<p>If you have already written an improvement, please tell us about it.  If
you have not yet started work, it is useful to contact
<a class="url" href="https://lists.gnu.org/mailman/listinfo/emacs-devel">emacs-devel</a>
before you start; it might be possible to suggest ways to make your
extension fit in better with the rest of Emacs.
</p>
<p>When implementing a feature, please follow the Emacs coding standards;
see <a class="pxref" href="#Coding-Standards">Coding Standards</a>.  In addition, substantial contributions
require a copyright assignment to the FSF; see <a class="pxref" href="#Copyright-Assignment">Copyright Assignment</a>.
</p>
<p>The development version of Emacs can be downloaded from the
repository where it is actively maintained by a group of developers.
See the Emacs project page
<a class="url" href="https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/emacs/">https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/emacs/</a> for access details.
</p>
<p>It is important to write your patches based on the current working
version.  If you start from an older version, your patch may be
outdated (so that maintainers will have a hard time applying it), or
changes in Emacs may have made your patch unnecessary.  After you have
downloaded the repository source, you should read the file
<samp class="file">INSTALL.REPO</samp> for build instructions (they differ to some extent
from a normal build).
</p>
<p>If you would like to make more extensive contributions, see the
<samp class="file">CONTRIBUTE</samp> file in the Emacs source tree for information on how
to be an Emacs developer.  That file is distributed as part of the source
tarball of every released Emacs version, and can also be found on-line
in the <a class="url" href="https://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/emacs.git/tree/CONTRIBUTE">Emacs on-line source repository</a>.  If you cloned the Emacs repository,
per the instructions in <a class="url" href="https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/emacs/">https://savannah.gnu.org/projects/emacs/</a>,
you will find this file in the top directory of the source Emacs tree.
</p>
<p>For documentation on Emacs (to understand how to implement your
desired change), refer to:
</p>
<ul class="itemize mark-bullet">
<li>See <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/index.html#Top">Emacs Manual</a>.

</li><li>See <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/index.html#Top">Emacs Lisp Reference Manual</a>.

</li><li><a class="url" href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs">https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs</a>

</li><li><a class="url" href="https://www.emacswiki.org/">https://www.emacswiki.org/</a>
</li></ul>


<div class="section-level-extent" id="Coding-Standards">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="Coding-Standards-1">54.1 Coding Standards</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-coding-standards-for-Emacs-submissions"></a>

<p>Contributed code should follow the GNU Coding Standards
<a class="url" href="https://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/">https://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/</a>. This may also be available
in info on your system.
</p>
<p>If it doesn&#8217;t, we&#8217;ll need to find someone to fix the code before we
can use it.
</p>
<p>Emacs has additional style and coding conventions:
</p>
<ul class="itemize mark-bullet">
<li>See <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Tips.html#Tips">Tips
Appendix</a> in <cite class="cite">Emacs Lisp Reference</cite>.

</li><li>Avoid using <code class="code">defadvice</code> or <code class="code">with-eval-after-load</code> for Lisp code
to be included in Emacs.

</li><li>Remove all trailing whitespace in all source and text files.

</li><li>Use <code class="code">?\s</code> instead of <code class="code">? </code> in Lisp code for a space character.

</li></ul>

</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Copyright-Assignment">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="Copyright-Assignment-1">54.2 Copyright Assignment</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-copyright-assignment"></a>

<p>The FSF (Free Software Foundation) is the copyright holder for GNU Emacs.
The FSF is a nonprofit with a worldwide mission to promote computer
user freedom and to defend the rights of all free software users.
For general information, see the website <a class="url" href="https://www.fsf.org/">https://www.fsf.org/</a>.
</p>
<p>Generally speaking, for non-trivial contributions to GNU Emacs and
packages stored in GNU ELPA, we require that the copyright be assigned
to the FSF.  For the reasons behind this, see
<a class="url" href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/why-assign.html">https://www.gnu.org/licenses/why-assign.html</a>.
</p>
<p>Copyright assignment is a simple process.  Residents of many countries
can do it entirely electronically.  We can help you get started,
including sending you the forms you should fill, and answer any
questions you may have (or point you to the people with the answers),
at the <a class="email" href="mailto:emacs-devel@gnu.org">emacs-devel@gnu.org</a> mailing list.
</p>
<p>(Please note: general discussion about why some GNU projects ask
for a copyright assignment is off-topic for emacs-devel.
See gnu-misc-discuss instead.)
</p>
<p>A copyright disclaimer is also a possibility, but we prefer an assignment.
Note that the disclaimer, like an assignment, involves you sending
signed paperwork to the FSF (simply saying &#8220;this is in the public domain&#8221;
is not enough).  Also, a disclaimer cannot be applied to future work, it
has to be repeated each time you want to send something new.
</p>
<p>We can accept small changes (roughly, fewer than 15 lines) without
an assignment.  This is a cumulative limit (e.g., three separate 5 line
patches) over all your contributions.
</p>
</div>
</div>



</body>
</html>
