<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>Distribution (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="Distribution (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="Distribution (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Intro.xhtml" rel="next" title="Introduction"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="prev" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
div.display {margin-left: 3.2em}
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
pre.display-preformatted {font-family: inherit}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="unnumbered-level-extent" id="Distrib">

<h2 class="unnumbered" id="Distribution">Distribution</h2>

<p>GNU Emacs 是 <em class="dfn">自由软件</em>;这意味着每个人都可以自由使用它，并且可以在特定条件下自由地重新分发它。 GNU Emacs 不属于公有领域;它是受版权保护的，并且对其分发有限制，但这些限制旨在允许一个好的合作公民想要做的一切。不允许的是试图阻止其他人进一步分享他们可能从您那里获得的任何版本的 GNU Emacs。 确切的条件可以在 Emacs 附带的 “GNU 通用公共许可证”( GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE) 中找到，也出现在本手册中的
See <a class="xref" href="Copying.xhtml">GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE</a>.
</p>
<p>获得 GNU Emacs 副本的一种方法是从拥有它的人那里。
您无需征得我们的许可，也无需告知其他任何人;
只需复制它。 如果您可以访问 Internet，则可以通过匿名FTP获得
GNU Emacs的最新发行版本;看
<a class="url" href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs">https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs</a> 在我们的网站上了解更多信息
信息。
</p>

<p>当您购买计算机时，您也可能收到 GNU Emacs。 计算机制造商可以按照适用于以下条件的相同条款自由分发副本：
别人。 这些条款要求他们为您提供完整的源代码，包括他们可能所做的任何更改，并允许您根据通用公共许可证的通常条款重新分发从他们那里收到的 GNU Emacs。 换句话说，当您获得该程序时，该程序必须对您免费，而不仅仅是对制造商免费。
</p>
<p>如果您觉得 GNU Emacs 有用，请<strong class="strong">捐款</strong>给自由软件基金会来支持我们的工作。 在美国对自由软件基金会的捐款免税。 如果您在工作场所使用 GNU Emacs，也请建议公司捐款。
要捐款，请参阅 <a class="url" href="https://my.fsf.org/donate/">https://my.fsf.org/donate/</a>。
有关您可以提供帮助的其他方式，请参阅
<a class="url" href="https://www.gnu.org/help/help.html">https://www.gnu.org/help/help.html</a>。
</p>
<a class="anchor" id="Printed-Books"></a><p>We also sell hardcopy versions of this manual and <cite class="cite">An
Introduction to Programming in Emacs Lisp</cite>, by Robert J. Chassell.
You can visit our online store at <a class="url" href="https://shop.fsf.org/">https://shop.fsf.org/</a>.
The income from sales goes to support the foundation&#8217;s purpose: the
development of new free software, and improvements to our existing
programs including GNU Emacs.
</p>
<p>If you need to contact the Free Software Foundation, see
<a class="url" href="https://www.fsf.org/about/contact/">https://www.fsf.org/about/contact/</a>, or write to
</p>
<div class="display">
<pre class="display-preformatted">Free Software Foundation
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor
Boston, MA 02110-1301
USA
</pre></div>


</div>



</body>
</html>
