<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>38 Document Viewing (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="38 Document Viewing (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="38 Document Viewing (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Shell.xhtml#Shell" rel="next" title="39 Running Shell Commands from Emacs"/>
<link href="Network-Security.xhtml" rel="prev" title="37 Network Security"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Document-View">

<h2 class="chapter section-level-set-chapter" id="Document-Viewing">38 Document Viewing</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-DVI-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-PDF-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-PS-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-PostScript-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-OpenDocument-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Microsoft-Office-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-EPUB-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-CBZ-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-FB2-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-XPS-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-OXPS-file"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-DocView-mode"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-mode_002c-DocView"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-document-viewer-_0028DocView_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dmode"></a>

<p>DocView mode is a major mode for viewing DVI, PostScript (PS), PDF,
OpenDocument, Microsoft Office, EPUB, CBZ, FB2, XPS and OXPS
documents.  It provides features such as slicing, zooming, and
searching inside documents.  It works by converting the document to a
set of images using the <code class="command">gs</code> (GhostScript) or
<code class="command">pdfdraw</code>/<code class="command">mutool draw</code> (MuPDF) commands and other
external tools, and then displays those converted images.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dtoggle_002ddisplay"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dminor_002dmode"></a>
<p>When you visit a document file that can be displayed with DocView
mode, Emacs automatically uses that mode <a class="footnote" id="DOCF20" href="#FOOT20"><sup>20</sup></a>.  As an exception, when you visit a PostScript file, Emacs
switches to PS mode, a major mode for editing PostScript files as
text; however, it also enables DocView minor mode, so you can type
<kbd class="kbd">C-c C-c</kbd> to view the document with DocView.  In either DocView
mode or DocView minor mode, repeating <kbd class="kbd">C-c C-c</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-toggle-display</code>) toggles between DocView and the
underlying file contents.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dopen_002dtext"></a>
<p>When you visit a file which would normally be handled by DocView
mode but some requirement is not met (e.g., you operate in a terminal
frame or Emacs has no PNG support), you are queried if you want to
view the document&#8217;s contents as plain text.  If you confirm, the
buffer is put in text mode and DocView minor mode is activated.  Thus,
by typing <kbd class="kbd">C-c C-c</kbd> you switch to the fallback mode.  With another
<kbd class="kbd">C-c C-c</kbd> you return to DocView mode.  The plain text contents can
also be displayed from within DocView mode by typing <kbd class="kbd">C-c C-t</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-open-text</code>).
</p>
<p>You can explicitly enable DocView mode with the command <kbd class="kbd">M-x
doc-view-mode</kbd>.  You can toggle DocView minor mode with <kbd class="kbd">M-x
doc-view-minor-mode</kbd>.
</p>
<p>When DocView mode starts, it displays a welcome screen and begins
formatting the file, page by page.  It displays the first page once
that has been formatted.
</p>
<p>To kill the DocView buffer, type <kbd class="kbd">k</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-kill-proc-and-buffer</code>).  To bury it, type <kbd class="kbd">q</kbd>
(<code class="code">quit-window</code>).
</p>

<div class="section-level-extent" id="DocView-Navigation">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="DocView-Navigation-1">38.1 DocView Navigation</h3>

<p>In DocView mode, you can scroll the current page using the usual
Emacs movement keys: <kbd class="kbd">C-p</kbd>, <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd>, <kbd class="kbd">C-b</kbd>, <kbd class="kbd">C-f</kbd>, and
the arrow keys.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dcontinuous"></a>
<p>By default, the line-motion keys <kbd class="kbd">C-p</kbd> and <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd> stop
scrolling at the beginning and end of the current page, respectively.
However, if you change the variable <code class="code">doc-view-continuous</code> to a
non-<code class="code">nil</code> value, then <kbd class="kbd">C-p</kbd> displays the previous page if you
are already at the beginning of the current page, and <kbd class="kbd">C-n</kbd>
displays the next page if you are at the end of the current page.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dnext_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dprevious_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-n-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-p-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-PageDown-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-PageUp-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-next-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-prior-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dx-_005d-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dx-_005b-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<p>You can also display the next page by typing <kbd class="kbd">n</kbd>,
<kbd class="key">PageDown</kbd>, <kbd class="key">next</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">C-x ]</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-next-page</code>).
To display the previous page, type <kbd class="kbd">p</kbd>, <kbd class="key">PageUp</kbd>, <kbd class="key">prior</kbd>
or <kbd class="kbd">C-x [</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-previous-page</code>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dscroll_002dup_002dor_002dnext_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dscroll_002ddown_002dor_002dprevious_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-SPC-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-DEL-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<p><kbd class="key">SPC</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-scroll-up-or-next-page</code>) is a convenient
way to advance through the document.  It scrolls within the current
page or advances to the next.  <kbd class="key">DEL</kbd> moves backwards in a similar
way (<code class="code">doc-view-scroll-down-or-previous-page</code>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dfirst_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dlast_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dgoto_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-M_002d_003c-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-M_002d_003e-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<p>To go to the first page, type <kbd class="kbd">M-&lt;</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-first-page</code>); to go to the last one, type <kbd class="kbd">M-&gt;</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-last-page</code>).  To jump to a page by its number, type
<kbd class="kbd">M-g M-g</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">M-g g</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-goto-page</code>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002denlarge"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dshrink"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dresolution"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dscale_002dinternally"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-_002b-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-_002d-_0028DocView-mode_0029"></a>
<p>You can enlarge or shrink the document with <kbd class="kbd">+</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-enlarge</code>) and <kbd class="kbd">-</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-shrink</code>).  By
default, these commands just rescale the already-rendered image.  If
you instead want the image to be re-rendered at the new size, set
<code class="code">doc-view-scale-internally</code> to <code class="code">nil</code>.  To specify the
default size for DocView, customize the variable
<code class="code">doc-view-resolution</code>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dimenu_002denabled"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dimenu_002dflatten"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dimenu_002dformat"></a>
<p>When the <code class="command">mutool</code> program is available, DocView will use it
to generate entries for an outline menu, making it accessible via the
<code class="code">imenu</code> facility (see <a class="pxref" href="Programs.xhtml#Imenu">Imenu</a>).  To disable this functionality
even when <code class="command">mutool</code> can be found on your system, customize the
variable <code class="code">doc-view-imenu-enabled</code> to the <code class="code">nil</code> value.  You
can further customize how <code class="code">imenu</code> items are formatted and
displayed using the variables <code class="code">doc-view-imenu-format</code> and
<code class="code">doc-view-flatten</code>.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="DocView-Searching">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="DocView-Searching-1">38.2 DocView Searching</h3>

<p>In DocView mode, you can search the file&#8217;s text for a regular
expression (see <a class="pxref" href="Search.xhtml#Regexps">Syntax of Regular Expressions</a>).  The interface for searching is inspired
by <code class="code">isearch</code> (see <a class="pxref" href="Search.xhtml#Incremental-Search">Incremental Search</a>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dsearch"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dsearch_002dbackward"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dshow_002dtooltip"></a>
<p>To begin a search, type <kbd class="kbd">C-s</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-search</code>) or
<kbd class="kbd">C-r</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-search-backward</code>).  This reads a regular
expression using a minibuffer, then echoes the number of matches found
within the document.  You can move forward and back among the matches
by typing <kbd class="kbd">C-s</kbd> and <kbd class="kbd">C-r</kbd>.  DocView mode has no way to show
the match inside the page image; instead, it displays a tooltip (at
the mouse position) listing all matching lines in the current page.
To force display of this tooltip, type <kbd class="kbd">C-t</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-show-tooltip</code>).
</p>
<p>To start a new search, use the search command with a prefix
argument; i.e., <kbd class="kbd">C-u C-s</kbd> for a forward search or <kbd class="kbd">C-u C-r</kbd>
for a backward search.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="DocView-Slicing">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="DocView-Slicing-1">38.3 DocView Slicing</h3>

<p>Documents often have wide margins for printing.  They are annoying
when reading the document on the screen, because they use up screen
space and can cause inconvenient scrolling.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dset_002dslice"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dset_002dslice_002dusing_002dmouse"></a>
<p>With DocView you can hide these margins by selecting a <em class="dfn">slice</em>
of pages to display.  A slice is a rectangle within the page area;
once you specify a slice in DocView, it applies to whichever page you
look at.
</p>
<p>To specify the slice numerically, type <kbd class="kbd">c s</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-set-slice</code>); then enter the top left pixel position
and the slice&#8217;s width and height.
</p>
<p>A more convenient graphical way to specify the slice is with <kbd class="kbd">c
m</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-set-slice-using-mouse</code>), where you use the mouse to
select the slice.  Simply press and hold the left mouse button at the
upper-left corner of the region you want to have in the slice, then
move the mouse pointer to the lower-right corner and release the
button.
</p>
<p>The most convenient way is to set the optimal slice by using
BoundingBox information automatically determined from the document by
typing <kbd class="kbd">c b</kbd> (<code class="code">doc-view-set-slice-from-bounding-box</code>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dreset_002dslice"></a>
<p>To cancel the selected slice, type <kbd class="kbd">c r</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-reset-slice</code>).  Then DocView shows the entire page
including its entire margins.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="DocView-Conversion">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="DocView-Conversion-1">38.4 DocView Conversion</h3>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dcache_002ddirectory"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dclear_002dcache"></a>
<p>For efficiency, DocView caches the images produced by <code class="command">gs</code>.
The name of the directory where it caches images is given by the variable
<code class="code">doc-view-cache-directory</code>.  You can clear the cache directory by
typing <kbd class="kbd">M-x doc-view-clear-cache</kbd>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dkill_002dproc"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-doc_002dview_002dkill_002dproc_002dand_002dbuffer"></a>
<p>To force reconversion of the currently viewed document, type <kbd class="kbd">r</kbd>
or <kbd class="kbd">g</kbd> (<code class="code">revert-buffer</code>).  To kill the converter process
associated with the current buffer, type <kbd class="kbd">K</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-kill-proc</code>).  The command <kbd class="kbd">k</kbd>
(<code class="code">doc-view-kill-proc-and-buffer</code>) kills the converter process and
the DocView buffer.
</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="footnotes-segment">
<h4 class="footnotes-heading">Footnotes</h4>

<h5 class="footnote-body-heading"><a id="FOOT20" href="#DOCF20">(20)</a></h5>
<p>The needed
external tools for the document type must be available, and Emacs must
be running in a graphical frame and have PNG image support.  If these
requirements is not fulfilled, Emacs falls back to another major
mode.</p>
</div>



</body>
</html>
