<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>6 Entering Emacs (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="6 Entering Emacs (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="6 Entering Emacs (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Exiting.xhtml" rel="next" title="7 Exiting Emacs"/>
<link href="Commands.xhtml" rel="prev" title="5 Keys and Commands"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Entering-Emacs">

<h2 class="chapter section-level-set-chapter" id="Entering-Emacs-1">6 Entering Emacs</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-entering-Emacs"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-starting-Emacs"></a>

<p>The usual way to invoke Emacs is with the shell command
<code class="command">emacs</code>.  From a terminal window running a Unix shell on a GUI
terminal, you can run Emacs in the background with <kbd class="kbd">emacs &amp;</kbd>; this
way, Emacs won&#8217;t tie up the terminal window, so you can use it to run
other shell commands.  (For comparable methods of starting Emacs on
MS-Windows, see <a class="ref" href="Microsoft-Windows.xhtml#Windows-Startup">How to Start Emacs on MS-Windows</a>.)
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-startup-screen"></a>
<p>When Emacs starts up, the initial frame displays a special buffer
named &#8216;<samp class="samp">*GNU Emacs*</samp>&#8217;.  This <em class="dfn">startup screen</em> contains
information about Emacs and <em class="dfn">links</em> to common tasks that are
useful for beginning users.  For instance, activating the &#8216;<samp class="samp">Emacs
Tutorial</samp>&#8217; link opens the Emacs tutorial; this does the same thing as
the command <kbd class="kbd">C-h t</kbd> (<code class="code">help-with-tutorial</code>).  To activate a
link, either move point onto it and type <kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd>, or click on
it with <kbd class="kbd">mouse-1</kbd> (the left mouse button).
</p>
<p>Using a command line argument, you can tell Emacs to visit one or
more files as soon as it starts up.  For example, <code class="command">emacs
foo.txt</code> starts Emacs with a buffer displaying the contents of the
file &#8216;<samp class="samp">foo.txt</samp>&#8217;.  This feature exists mainly for compatibility
with other editors, which are designed to be launched from the shell
for short editing sessions.  If you call Emacs this way, the initial
frame is split into two windows&#8212;one showing the specified file, and
the other showing the startup screen.  See <a class="xref" href="Windows.xhtml#Windows">Multiple Windows</a>.
</p>
<p>Generally, it is unnecessary and wasteful to start Emacs afresh each
time you want to edit a file.  The recommended way to use Emacs is to
start it just once, just after you log in, and do all your editing in
the same Emacs session.  See <a class="xref" href="Files.xhtml#Files">File Handling</a>, for information on visiting
more than one file.  If you use Emacs this way, the Emacs session
accumulates valuable context, such as the kill ring, registers, undo
history, and mark ring data, which together make editing more
convenient.  These features are described later in the manual.
</p>
<p>To edit a file from another program while Emacs is running, you can
use the <code class="command">emacsclient</code> helper program to open a file in the
existing Emacs session.  See <a class="xref" href="Emacs-Server.xhtml#Emacs-Server">Using Emacs as a Server</a>.
</p>
<p>Emacs accepts other command line arguments that tell it to load
certain Lisp files, where to put the initial frame, and so forth.
See <a class="xref" href="Emacs-Invocation.xhtml#Emacs-Invocation">Command Line Arguments for Emacs Invocation</a>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-inhibit_002dstartup_002dscreen"></a>
<p>If the variable <code class="code">inhibit-startup-screen</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>,
Emacs does not display the startup screen.  In that case, if one or
more files were specified on the command line, Emacs simply displays
those files; otherwise, it displays a buffer named <samp class="file">*scratch*</samp>,
which can be used to evaluate Emacs Lisp expressions interactively.
See <a class="xref" href="Building.xhtml#Lisp-Interaction">Lisp Interaction Buffers</a>.  You can set the variable
<code class="code">inhibit-startup-screen</code> using the Customize facility
(see <a class="pxref" href="Customization.xhtml#Easy-Customization">Easy Customization Interface</a>), or by editing your initialization file
(see <a class="pxref" href="Customization.xhtml#Init-File">The Emacs Initialization File</a>).<a class="footnote" id="DOCF3" href="#FOOT3"><sup>3</sup></a>
</p>
<p>You can also force Emacs to display a file or directory at startup
by setting the variable <code class="code">initial-buffer-choice</code> to a string
naming that file or directory.  The value of
<code class="code">initial-buffer-choice</code> may also be a function (of no arguments)
that should return a buffer which is then displayed.
If <code class="code">initial-buffer-choice</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>, then if you specify
any files on the command line, Emacs still visits them, but does not
display them initially.
</p>
</div>
<div class="footnotes-segment">
<h4 class="footnotes-heading">Footnotes</h4>

<h5 class="footnote-body-heading"><a id="FOOT3" href="#DOCF3">(3)</a></h5>
<p>Setting <code class="code">inhibit-startup-screen</code> in
<samp class="file">site-start.el</samp> doesn&#8217;t work, because the startup screen is set
up before reading <samp class="file">site-start.el</samp>.  See <a class="xref" href="Customization.xhtml#Init-File">The Emacs Initialization File</a>, for
information about <samp class="file">site-start.el</samp>.</p>
</div>



</body>
</html>
