<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>35 Email and Usenet News with Gnus (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="35 Email and Usenet News with Gnus (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="35 Email and Usenet News with Gnus (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Host-Security.xhtml" rel="next" title="36 Host Security"/>
<link href="Rmail.xhtml#Rmail" rel="prev" title="34 Reading Mail with Rmail"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Gnus">

<h2 class="chapter section-level-set-chapter" id="Email-and-Usenet-News-with-Gnus">35 Email and Usenet News with Gnus</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Gnus"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Usenet-news"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-newsreader"></a>

<p>Gnus is an Emacs package primarily designed for reading and posting
Usenet news.  It can also be used to read and respond to messages from
a number of other sources&#8212;email, remote directories, digests, and so
on.  Here we introduce Gnus and describe several basic features.
For full details, see <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/gnus/index.html#Top">Gnus</a> in <cite class="cite">The Gnus Manual</cite>.
</p>

<div class="section-level-extent" id="Buffers-of-Gnus">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="Gnus-Buffers">35.1 Gnus Buffers</h3>

<p>Gnus uses several buffers to display information and to receive
commands.  The three most commonly-used Gnus buffers are the
<em class="dfn">group buffer</em>, the <em class="dfn">summary buffer</em> and the <em class="dfn">article
buffer</em>.
</p>
<p>The <em class="dfn">group buffer</em> contains a list of article sources (e.g.,
newsgroups and email inboxes), which are collectively referred to as
<em class="dfn">groups</em>.  This is the first buffer Gnus displays when it starts
up.  It normally displays only the groups to which you subscribe and
that contain unread articles.  From this buffer, you can select a
group to read.
</p>
<p>The <em class="dfn">summary buffer</em> lists the articles in a single group,
showing one article per line.  By default, it displays each article&#8217;s
author, subject, and line
number, but this is customizable; See <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/gnus/Summary-Buffer-Format.html#Summary-Buffer-Format">Summary Buffer Format</a> in <cite class="cite">The Gnus Manual</cite>.
The summary buffer is created when you select a group in the group
buffer, and is killed when you exit the group.
</p>
<p>From the summary buffer, you can choose an article to view.  The
article is displayed in the <em class="dfn">article buffer</em>.  In normal Gnus
usage, you view this buffer but do not select it&#8212;all useful Gnus
commands can be invoked from the summary buffer.  But you can select
the article buffer, and execute Gnus commands from it, if you wish.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Gnus-Startup">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="When-Gnus-Starts-Up">35.2 When Gnus Starts Up</h3>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-_002enewsrc-file"></a>
<p>If your system has been set up for reading Usenet news, getting
started with Gnus is easy&#8212;just type <kbd class="kbd">M-x gnus</kbd>.
</p>
<p>On starting up, Gnus reads your <em class="dfn">news initialization file</em>: a
file named <samp class="file">.newsrc</samp> in your home directory which lists your
Usenet newsgroups and subscriptions (this file is not unique to Gnus;
it is used by many other newsreader programs).  It then tries to
contact the system&#8217;s default news server, which is typically specified
by the <code class="env">NNTPSERVER</code> environment variable.
</p>
<p>If your system does not have a default news server, or if you wish
to use Gnus for reading email, then before invoking <kbd class="kbd">M-x gnus</kbd> you
need to tell Gnus where to get news and/or mail.  To do this,
customize the variables <code class="code">gnus-select-method</code> and/or
<code class="code">gnus-secondary-select-methods</code>.
See <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/gnus/Finding-the-News.html#Finding-the-News">Finding the News</a> in <cite class="cite">The Gnus Manual</cite>.
</p>
<p>Once Gnus has started up, it displays the group buffer.  By default,
the group buffer shows only a small number of <em class="dfn">subscribed groups</em>.
Groups with other statuses&#8212;<em class="dfn">unsubscribed</em>, <em class="dfn">killed</em>, or
<em class="dfn">zombie</em>&#8212;are hidden.  The first time you start Gnus, any group
to which you are not subscribed is made into a killed group; any group
that subsequently appears on the news server becomes a zombie group.
</p>
<p>To proceed, you must select a group in the group buffer to open the
summary buffer for that group; then, select an article in the summary
buffer to view its article buffer in a separate window.  The following
sections explain how to use the group and summary buffers to do this.
</p>
<p>To quit Gnus, type <kbd class="kbd">q</kbd> in the group buffer.  This automatically
records your group statuses in the files <samp class="file">.newsrc</samp> and
<samp class="file">.newsrc.eld</samp>, so that they take effect in subsequent Gnus
sessions.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Gnus-Group-Buffer">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="Using-the-Gnus-Group-Buffer">35.3 Using the Gnus Group Buffer</h3>

<p>The following commands are available in the Gnus group buffer:
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dread_002dgroup"></a>
<a id="index-SPC-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">SPC</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Switch to the summary buffer for the group on the current line
(<code class="code">gnus-group-read-group</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-A-s-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dlist_002dgroups"></a>
<a id="index-l-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">l</kbd></dt>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">A s</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>In the group buffer, list only the groups to which you subscribe and
which contain unread articles (<code class="code">gnus-group-list-groups</code>; this is
the default listing).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-A-u-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dlist_002dall_002dgroups"></a>
<a id="index-L-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">L</kbd></dt>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">A u</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>List all subscribed and unsubscribed groups, but not killed or zombie
groups (<code class="code">gnus-group-list-all-groups</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dlist_002dkilled"></a>
<a id="index-A-k-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">A k</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>List killed groups (<code class="code">gnus-group-list-killed</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dlist_002dzombies"></a>
<a id="index-A-z-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">A z</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>List zombie groups (<code class="code">gnus-group-list-zombies</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dtoggle_002dsubscription_002dat_002dpoint"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-subscribe-groups"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-unsubscribe-groups"></a>
<a id="index-u-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">u</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Toggle the subscription status of the group
(<code class="code">gnus-group-toggle-subscription-at-point</code>) on the current line.
Invoking this on a killed or zombie group turns it into an
unsubscribed group.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dkill_002dgroup"></a>
<a id="index-C_002dk-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">C-k</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Kill the group on the current line (<code class="code">gnus-group-kill-group</code>).
Killed groups are not recorded in the <samp class="file">.newsrc</samp> file, and they
are not shown in the <kbd class="kbd">l</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">L</kbd> listings.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-DEL-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">DEL</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Move point to the previous group containing unread articles
(<code class="code">gnus-group-prev-unread-group</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dnext_002dunread_002dgroup"></a>
<a id="index-n-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">n</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Move point to the next unread group
(<code class="code">gnus-group-next-unread-group</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dprev_002dunread_002dgroup"></a>
<a id="index-p-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">p</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Move point to the previous unread group
(<code class="code">gnus-group-prev-unread-group</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dgroup_002dexit"></a>
<a id="index-q-_0028Gnus-Group-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">q</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Update your Gnus settings, and quit Gnus (<code class="code">gnus-group-exit</code>).
</p></dd>
</dl>

</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Gnus-Summary-Buffer">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="Using-the-Gnus-Summary-Buffer">35.4 Using the Gnus Summary Buffer</h3>

<p>The following commands are available in the Gnus summary buffer:
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dsummary_002dnext_002dpage"></a>
<a id="index-SPC-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">SPC</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>If there is no article selected, select the article on the current
line and display its article buffer.  Otherwise, try scrolling the
selected article buffer in its window; on reaching the end of the
buffer, select the next unread article (<code class="code">gnus-summary-next-page</code>).
</p>
<p>Thus, you can read through all articles by repeatedly typing
<kbd class="key">SPC</kbd>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dsummary_002dprev_002dpage"></a>
<a id="index-DEL-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">DEL</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Scroll the text of the article backwards
(<code class="code">gnus-summary-prev-page</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dsummary_002dnext_002dunread_002darticle"></a>
<a id="index-n-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">n</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Select the next unread article
(<code class="code">gnus-summary-next-unread-article</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dsummary_002dprev_002dunread_002darticle"></a>
<a id="index-p-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">p</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Select the previous unread article
(<code class="code">gnus-summary-prev-unread-article</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dsummary_002disearch_002darticle"></a>
<a id="index-s-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">s</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Do an incremental search on the selected article buffer
(<code class="code">gnus-summary-isearch-article</code>), as if you switched to the
buffer and typed <kbd class="kbd">C-s</kbd> (see <a class="pxref" href="Search.xhtml#Incremental-Search">Incremental Search</a>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dsummary_002dsearch_002darticle_002dforward"></a>
<a id="index-M_002ds-M_002ds-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-s M-s <var class="var">regexp</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search forward for articles containing a match for <var class="var">regexp</var>
(<code class="code">gnus-summary-search-article-forward</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-gnus_002dsummary_002dsearch_002darticle_002dbackward"></a>
<a id="index-M_002ds-M_002dr-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-r <var class="var">regexp</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search back for articles containing a match for <var class="var">regexp</var>
(<code class="code">gnus-summary-search-article-backward</code>).
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-q-_0028Gnus-Summary-mode_0029"></a><kbd class="kbd">q</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Exit the summary buffer and return to the group buffer
(<code class="code">gnus-summary-exit</code>).
</p></dd>
</dl>

</div>
</div>



</body>
</html>
