<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>Appendix G Emacs and Haiku (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="Appendix G Emacs and Haiku (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="Appendix G Emacs and Haiku (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Microsoft-Windows.xhtml#Microsoft-Windows" rel="next" title="Appendix H Emacs and Microsoft Windows/MS-DOS"/>
<link href="Mac-OS-_002f-GNUstep.xhtml#Mac-OS-_002f-GNUstep" rel="prev" title="Appendix F Emacs and macOS / GNUstep"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="appendix-level-extent" id="Haiku">

<h2 class="appendix" id="Emacs-and-Haiku">Appendix G Emacs and Haiku</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Haiku"></a>

<p>Haiku is a Unix-like operating system that originated as a
re-implementation of the operating system BeOS.
</p>
<p>This section describes the peculiarities of using Emacs built with
the Application Kit, the windowing system native to Haiku.  The
oddities described here do not apply to using Emacs on Haiku built
without windowing support, or built with X11.
</p>

<div class="section-level-extent" id="Haiku-Basics">
<h3 class="section" id="Installation-and-usage-peculiarities-under-Haiku">G.1 Installation and usage peculiarities under Haiku</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-haiku-application"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-haiku-installation"></a>

<p>Emacs installs two separate executables under Haiku; it is up to the
user to decide which one suits him best: A regular executable, with
the lowercase name <code class="code">emacs</code>, and a binary containing
Haiku-specific application metadata, with the name <code class="code">Emacs</code>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-launching-Emacs-from-the-tracker"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-tty-Emacs-in-haiku"></a>
<p>If you are launching Emacs from the Tracker, or want to make the
Tracker open files using Emacs, you should use the binary named
<code class="code">Emacs</code>; if you are going to use Emacs in the terminal, or wish
to launch separate instances of Emacs, or do not care for the
aforementioned system integration features, use the binary named
<code class="code">emacs</code> instead.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-modifier-keys-and-system-keymap-_0028Haiku_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-haiku-keymap"></a>
<p>On Haiku, unusual modifier keys such as the Hyper key are
unsupported.  By default, the super key corresponds with the option
key defined by the operating system, the meta key with the command
key, the control key with the system control key, and the shift key
with the system shift key.  On a standard PC keyboard, Haiku should
map these keys to positions familiar to those using a GNU system, but
this may require some adjustment to your system&#8217;s configuration to
work.
</p>
<p>It is impossible to type accented characters using the system super
key map.
</p>
<p>You can customize the correspondence between modifier keys known to
the system, and those known to Emacs.  The variables that allow for
that are described below.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-modifier-key-customization-_0028Haiku_0029"></a>
<dl class="table">
<dt><a id="index-haiku_002dmeta_002dkeysym"></a><code class="code">haiku-meta-keysym</code></dt>
<dd><p>The system modifier key that will be treated as the Meta key by Emacs.
It defaults to <code class="code">command</code>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-haiku_002dcontrol_002dkeysym"></a><code class="code">haiku-control-keysym</code></dt>
<dd><p>The system modifier key that will be treated as the Control key by
Emacs.  It defaults to <code class="code">control</code>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-haiku_002dsuper_002dkeysym"></a><code class="code">haiku-super-keysym</code></dt>
<dd><p>The system modifier key that will be treated as the Super key by
Emacs.  It defaults to <code class="code">option</code>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-haiku_002dshift_002dkeysym"></a><code class="code">haiku-shift-keysym</code></dt>
<dd><p>The system modifier key that will be treated as the Shift key by
Emacs.  It defaults to <code class="code">shift</code>.
</p></dd>
</dl>

<p>The value of each variable can be one of the symbols <code class="code">command</code>,
<code class="code">control</code>, <code class="code">option</code>, <code class="code">shift</code>, or <code class="code">nil</code>.
<code class="code">nil</code> or any other value will cause the default value to be used
instead.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-tooltips-_0028haiku_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-haiku-tooltips"></a>
<p>On Haiku, Emacs defaults to using the system tooltip mechanism.
This usually leads to more responsive tooltips, but the tooltips will
not be able to display text properties or faces.  If you need those
features, customize the variable <code class="code">use-system-tooltips</code> to the
<code class="code">nil</code> value, and Emacs will use its own implementation of
tooltips.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-X-resources-on-Haiku"></a>
<p>Unlike the X window system, Haiku does not have a system-wide
resource database.  Since many important options are specified via
X resources (see <a class="pxref" href="X-Resources.xhtml#X-Resources">X Options and Resources</a>), an emulation is provided: upon
startup, Emacs will load a file named <samp class="file">GNU Emacs</samp> inside the user
configuration directory (normally <samp class="file">/boot/home/config/settings</samp>),
which should be a flattened system message where keys and values are
both strings, and correspond to attributes and their values
respectively.
</p>
<p>You can create such a file with the <code class="command">xmlbmessage</code> tool.
</p>
<div class="subsection-level-extent" id="What-to-do-when-Emacs-crashes">
<h4 class="subsection">G.1.1 What to do when Emacs crashes</h4>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-crashes_002c-Haiku"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-haiku-debugger"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-haiku_002ddebug_002don_002dfatal_002derror"></a>
<p>If the variable <code class="code">haiku-debug-on-fatal-error</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>, Emacs
will launch the system debugger when a fatal signal is received.  It
defaults to <code class="code">t</code>.  If GDB cannot be used on your system, please
attach the report generated by the system debugger when reporting a
bug.
</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Haiku-Fonts">
<h3 class="section" id="Font-and-font-backend-selection-on-Haiku">G.2 Font and font backend selection on Haiku</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-font-backend-selection-_0028Haiku_0029"></a>

<p>Emacs, when built with Haiku windowing support, can be built with
several different font backends.  You can specify font backends by
specifying <kbd class="kbd">-xrm Emacs.fontBackend:BACKEND</kbd> on the command line
used to invoke Emacs, where <kbd class="kbd">BACKEND</kbd> is one of the backends
specified below, or on a per-frame basis by changing the
<code class="code">font-backend</code> frame parameter.
</p>
<p>Two of these backends, <code class="code">ftcr</code> and <code class="code">ftcrhb</code> are identical
to their counterparts on the X Window System.  There is also a
Haiku-specific backend named <code class="code">haiku</code>, that uses the App Server to
draw fonts, but does not at present support display of color font and
emoji.
</p></div>
</div>



</body>
</html>
