<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>11 Help (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="11 Help (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="11 Help (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Mark.xhtml#Mark" rel="next" title="12 The Mark and the Region"/>
<link href="M_002dx.xhtml" rel="prev" title="10 Running Commands by Name"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
div.example {margin-left: 3.2em}
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Help">

<h2 class="chapter" id="Help-2">11 Help</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-self_002ddocumentation"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dcommand"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-F1"></a>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dh"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dfor_002dhelp"></a>
<p>Emacs provides a wide variety of help commands, all accessible
through the prefix key <kbd class="kbd">C-h</kbd> (or, equivalently, the function key
<kbd class="key">F1</kbd>).  These help commands are described in the following
sections.  You can also type <kbd class="kbd">C-h C-h</kbd> to view a list of help
commands (<code class="code">help-for-help</code>).  You can scroll the list with
<kbd class="key">SPC</kbd> and <kbd class="key">DEL</kbd>, then type the help command you want.  To
cancel, type <kbd class="kbd">C-g</kbd>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help-buffer"></a>
<p>Many help commands display their information in a special <em class="dfn">help
buffer</em>.  In this buffer, you can type <kbd class="key">SPC</kbd> and <kbd class="key">DEL</kbd> to
scroll and type <kbd class="key">RET</kbd> to follow hyperlinks.  See <a class="xref" href="#Help-Mode">Help Mode Commands</a>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dwindow_002dselect"></a>
<p>By default, help commands display the help buffer in a separate
window without selecting that window.  The variable
<code class="code">help-window-select</code> controls this: its default value is
<code class="code">nil</code>; if it&#8217;s customized to the value <code class="code">t</code>, the help window
is unconditionally selected by help commands, and if its value is
<code class="code">other</code>, the help window is selected only if there are more than
two windows on the selected frame.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dwindow_002dkeep_002dselected"></a>
<p>Conversely, many commands in the &#8216;<samp class="samp">*Help*</samp>&#8217; buffer will pop up a
new window to display the results.  For instance, clicking on the link
to show the source code, or using the <kbd class="key">i</kbd> command to display the
manual entry, will (by default) pop up a new window.  If
<code class="code">help-window-keep-selected</code> is changed to non-<code class="code">nil</code>, the
window displaying the &#8216;<samp class="samp">*Help*</samp>&#8217; buffer will be reused instead.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-searching-documentation-efficiently"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-looking-for-a-subject-in-documentation"></a>
<p>If you are looking for a certain feature, but don&#8217;t know what it is
called or where to look, we recommend three methods.  First, try an
apropos command, then try searching the manual index, then look in the
FAQ and the package keywords, and finally try listing external packages.
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h a <var class="var">topics</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>This searches for commands whose names match the argument
<var class="var">topics</var>.  The argument can be a keyword, a list of keywords, or a
regular expression (see <a class="pxref" href="Search.xhtml#Regexps">Syntax of Regular Expressions</a>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Apropos">Apropos</a>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h i d m emacs <kbd class="key">RET</kbd> i <var class="var">topic</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>This searches for <var class="var">topic</var> in the indices of the Emacs Info manual,
displaying the first match found.  Press <kbd class="kbd">,</kbd> to see subsequent
matches.  You can use a regular expression as <var class="var">topic</var>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h i d m emacs <kbd class="key">RET</kbd> s <var class="var">topic</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Similar, but searches the <em class="emph">text</em> of the manual rather than the
indices.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-f</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>This displays the Emacs FAQ, using Info.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h p</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>This displays the available Emacs packages based on keywords.
See <a class="xref" href="#Package-Keywords">Keyword Search for Packages</a>.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x list-packages</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>This displays a list of external packages.  See <a class="xref" href="Packages.xhtml#Packages">Emacs Lisp Packages</a>.
</p></dd>
</dl>

<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h</kbd> or <kbd class="key">F1</kbd> mean &#8220;help&#8221; in various other contexts as
well.  For instance, you can type them after a prefix key to view a
list of the keys that can follow the prefix key.  (You can also use
<kbd class="kbd">?</kbd> in this context.  A few prefix keys don&#8217;t support <kbd class="kbd">C-h</kbd>
or <kbd class="kbd">?</kbd> in this way, because they define other meanings for those
inputs, but they all support <kbd class="key">F1</kbd>.)
</p>

<div class="section-level-extent" id="Help-Summary">
<h3 class="section" id="Help-Summary-1">11.1 Help Summary</h3>

<p>Here is a summary of help commands for accessing the built-in
documentation.  Most of these are described in more detail in the
following sections.
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h a <var class="var">topics</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display a list of commands whose names match <var class="var">topics</var>
(<code class="code">apropos-command</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Apropos">Apropos</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h b</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display all active key bindings; minor mode bindings first, then those
of the major mode, then global bindings (<code class="code">describe-bindings</code>).
See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-q</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Toggle display of a window showing popular commands and their key
bindings.  See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h c <var class="var">key</var></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Show the name of the command that the key sequence <var class="var">key</var> is bound
to (<code class="code">describe-key-briefly</code>).  Here <kbd class="kbd">c</kbd> stands for
&#8220;character&#8221;.  For more extensive information on <var class="var">key</var>, use
<kbd class="kbd">C-h k</kbd>.  See <a class="xref" href="#Key-Help">Documentation for a Key</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h d <var class="var">topics</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the commands and variables whose documentation matches
<var class="var">topics</var> (<code class="code">apropos-documentation</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Apropos">Apropos</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h e</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the <samp class="file">*Messages*</samp> buffer
(<code class="code">view-echo-area-messages</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h f <var class="var">function</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display documentation on the Lisp function named <var class="var">function</var>
(<code class="code">describe-function</code>).  Since commands are Lisp functions, this
works for commands too, but you can also use <code class="code">C-h x</code>.  See <a class="xref" href="#Name-Help">Help by Command or Variable Name</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h h</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the <samp class="file">HELLO</samp> file, which shows examples of various character
sets.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h i</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Run Info, the GNU documentation browser (<code class="code">info</code>).  The Emacs
manual is available in Info.  See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h k <var class="var">key</var></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the name and documentation of the command that <var class="var">key</var> runs
(<code class="code">describe-key</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Key-Help">Documentation for a Key</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h l</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display a description of your last 300 keystrokes
(<code class="code">view-lossage</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h m</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display documentation of the current major mode and minor modes
(<code class="code">describe-mode</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h n</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display news of recent Emacs changes (<code class="code">view-emacs-news</code>).
See <a class="xref" href="#Help-Files">Help Files</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h o <var class="var">symbol</var></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display documentation of the Lisp symbol named <var class="var">symbol</var>
(<code class="code">describe-symbol</code>).  This will show the documentation of all
kinds of symbols: functions, variables, and faces.  See <a class="xref" href="#Name-Help">Help by Command or Variable Name</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h p</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Find packages by topic keyword (<code class="code">finder-by-keyword</code>).
See <a class="xref" href="#Package-Keywords">Keyword Search for Packages</a>.  This lists packages using a package menu
buffer.  See <a class="xref" href="Packages.xhtml#Packages">Emacs Lisp Packages</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h P <var class="var">package</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display documentation about the specified package
(<code class="code">describe-package</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Package-Keywords">Keyword Search for Packages</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h r</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the Emacs manual in Info (<code class="code">info-emacs-manual</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h s</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the contents of the current <em class="dfn">syntax table</em>
(<code class="code">describe-syntax</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.  The syntax table says
which characters are opening delimiters, which are parts of words, and
so on.  See <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Syntax-Tables.html#Syntax-Tables">Syntax Tables</a> in <cite class="cite">The Emacs Lisp
Reference Manual</cite>, for details.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h t</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Enter the Emacs interactive tutorial (<code class="code">help-with-tutorial</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h v <var class="var">var</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the documentation of the Lisp variable <var class="var">var</var>
(<code class="code">describe-variable</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Name-Help">Help by Command or Variable Name</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h w <var class="var">command</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Show which keys run the command named <var class="var">command</var> (<code class="code">where-is</code>).
See <a class="xref" href="#Key-Help">Documentation for a Key</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h x <var class="var">command</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display documentation on the named <var class="var">command</var>
(<code class="code">describe-command</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Name-Help">Help by Command or Variable Name</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C <var class="var">coding</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Describe the coding system <var class="var">coding</var>
(<code class="code">describe-coding-system</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="International.xhtml#Coding-Systems">Coding Systems</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Describe the coding systems currently in use.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h F <var class="var">command</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Enter Info and go to the node that documents the Emacs command
<var class="var">command</var> (<code class="code">Info-goto-emacs-command-node</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Name-Help">Help by Command or Variable Name</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h I <var class="var">method</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Describe the input method <var class="var">method</var> (<code class="code">describe-input-method</code>).
See <a class="xref" href="International.xhtml#Select-Input-Method">Selecting an Input Method</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h K <var class="var">key</var></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Enter Info and go to the node that documents the key sequence
<var class="var">key</var> (<code class="code">Info-goto-emacs-key-command-node</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="#Key-Help">Documentation for a Key</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h L <var class="var">language-env</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display information on the character sets, coding systems, and input
methods used in language environment <var class="var">language-env</var>
(<code class="code">describe-language-environment</code>).  See <a class="xref" href="International.xhtml#Language-Environments">Language Environments</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h S <var class="var">symbol</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the Info documentation on symbol <var class="var">symbol</var> according to the
programming language you are editing (<code class="code">info-lookup-symbol</code>).
See <a class="xref" href="#Misc-Help">Other Help Commands</a>.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h .</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the help message for a special text area, if point is in one
(<code class="code">display-local-help</code>).  (These include, for example, links in
<samp class="file">*Help*</samp> buffers.)  See <a class="xref" href="#Help-Echo">Help on Active Text and Tooltips</a>.  If you invoke
this command with a prefix argument, <kbd class="kbd">C-u C-h .</kbd>, and point is on
a button or a widget, this command will pop a new buffer that
describes that button/widget.
</p></dd>
</dl>

</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Key-Help">
<h3 class="section" id="Documentation-for-a-Key">11.2 Documentation for a Key</h3>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dkey_002dbriefly"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dkey"></a>
<p>The help commands to get information about a key sequence are
<kbd class="kbd">C-h c</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-key-briefly</code>) and <kbd class="kbd">C-h k</kbd>
(<code class="code">describe-key</code>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-c"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h c <var class="var">key</var></kbd> displays in the echo area the name of the
command that <var class="var">key</var> is bound to.  For example, <kbd class="kbd">C-h c C-f</kbd>
displays &#8216;<samp class="samp">forward-char</samp>&#8217;.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-documentation-string"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-k"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h k <var class="var">key</var></kbd> is similar but gives more information: it
displays a help buffer containing the command&#8217;s <em class="dfn">documentation
string</em>, which describes exactly what the command does.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-K"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Info_002dgoto_002demacs_002dkey_002dcommand_002dnode"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h K <var class="var">key</var></kbd> displays the section of the Emacs manual that
describes the command corresponding to <var class="var">key</var>.
</p>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h c</kbd>, <kbd class="kbd">C-h k</kbd> and <kbd class="kbd">C-h K</kbd> work for any sort of key
sequences, including function keys, menus, and mouse events (except
that <kbd class="kbd">C-h c</kbd> ignores mouse movement events).  For instance, after
<kbd class="kbd">C-h k</kbd> you can select a menu item from the menu bar, to view the
documentation string of the command it runs.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-w"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-where_002dis"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h w <var class="var">command</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd> lists the keys that are bound to
<var class="var">command</var>.  It displays the list in the echo area.  If it says the
command is not on any key, that means you must use <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> to run
it.  <kbd class="kbd">C-h w</kbd> runs the command <code class="code">where-is</code>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-button_002ddescribe"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-widget_002ddescribe"></a>
<p>Some modes in Emacs use various buttons (see <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Buttons.html#Buttons">Buttons</a> in <cite class="cite">The
Emacs Lisp Reference Manual</cite>) and widgets
(see <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/widget/Introduction.html#Introduction">Introduction</a> in <cite class="cite">Emacs Widgets</cite>) that can be clicked to
perform some action.  To find out what function is ultimately invoked
by these buttons, Emacs provides the <code class="code">button-describe</code> and
<code class="code">widget-describe</code> commands, that should be run with point over
the button.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Name-Help">
<h3 class="section" id="Help-by-Command-or-Variable-Name">11.3 Help by Command or Variable Name</h3>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-x"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dcommand"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h x <var class="var">command</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd> (<code class="code">describe-command</code>)
displays the documentation of the named <var class="var">command</var>, in a
window.  For example,
</p>
<div class="example">
<pre class="example-preformatted">C-h x auto-fill-mode <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>
</pre></div>

<p>displays the documentation of <code class="code">auto-fill-mode</code>.  This is how you
would get the documentation of a command that is not bound to any key
(one which you would normally run using <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-f"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dfunction"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h f <var class="var">function</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd> (<code class="code">describe-function</code>)
displays the documentation of Lisp <var class="var">function</var>.  This command is
intended for Lisp functions that you use in a Lisp program.  For
example, if you have just written the expression
<code class="code">(make-vector len)</code> and want to check that you are using
<code class="code">make-vector</code> properly, type <kbd class="kbd">C-h&#160;f&#160;make-vector&#160;<kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd><!-- /@w -->.
Additionally, since all commands are Lisp functions, you can also use
this command to view the documentation of any command.
</p>
<p>If you type <kbd class="kbd">C-h f <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd>, it describes the function called
by the innermost Lisp expression in the buffer around point,
<em class="emph">provided</em> that function name is a valid, defined Lisp function.
(That name appears as the default while you enter the argument.)  For
example, if point is located following the text &#8216;<samp class="samp">(make-vector
(car x)</samp>&#8217;, the innermost list containing point is the one that starts
with &#8216;<samp class="samp">(make-vector</samp>&#8217;, so <kbd class="kbd">C-h&#160;f&#160;<kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd><!-- /@w --> describes the
function <code class="code">make-vector</code>.
</p>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h f</kbd> is also useful just to verify that you spelled a
function name correctly.  If the minibuffer prompt for <kbd class="kbd">C-h f</kbd>
shows the function name from the buffer as the default, it means that
name is defined as a Lisp function.  Type <kbd class="kbd">C-g</kbd> to cancel the
<kbd class="kbd">C-h f</kbd> command if you don&#8217;t really want to view the
documentation.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002denable_002dsymbol_002dautoload"></a>
<p>If you request help for an autoloaded function whose <code class="code">autoload</code>
form (see <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Autoload.html#Autoload">Autoload</a> in <cite class="cite">The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual</cite>)
doesn&#8217;t provide a doc string, the <samp class="file">*Help*</samp> buffer won&#8217;t have any
doc string to display.  In that case, if
<code class="code">help-enable-symbol-autoload</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>, Emacs will try
to load the file in which the function is defined to see whether
there&#8217;s a doc string there.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-shortdoc"></a>
<p>You can get an overview of functions relevant for a particular topic
by using the <kbd class="kbd">M-x shortdoc</kbd> command.  This will prompt you for an
area of interest, e.g., <code class="code">string</code>, and pop you to a buffer where
many of the functions relevant for handling strings are listed.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-v"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dvariable"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h v</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-variable</code>) is like <kbd class="kbd">C-h f</kbd> but
describes Lisp variables instead of Lisp functions.  Its default is
the Lisp symbol around or before point, if that is the name of a
defined Lisp variable.  See <a class="xref" href="Customization.xhtml#Variables">Variables</a>.
</p>
<p>Help buffers that describe Emacs variables and functions normally
have hyperlinks to the corresponding source code, if you have the
source files installed (see <a class="pxref" href="Hyperlinking.xhtml#Hyperlinking">Hyperlinking and Web Navigation Features</a>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-F"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Info_002dgoto_002demacs_002dcommand_002dnode"></a>
<p>To find a command&#8217;s documentation in a manual, use <kbd class="kbd">C-h F</kbd>
(<code class="code">Info-goto-emacs-command-node</code>).  This knows about various
manuals, not just the Emacs manual, and finds the right one.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-o"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dsymbol"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h o</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-symbol</code>) is like <kbd class="kbd">C-h f</kbd> and
<kbd class="kbd">C-h v</kbd>, but it describes any symbol, be it a function, a
variable, or a face.  If the symbol has more than one definition, like
it has both definition as a function and as a variable, this command
will show the documentation of all of them, one after the other.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-completions_002ddetailed"></a>
<p>If the <code class="code">completions-detailed</code> user option is non-<code class="code">nil</code>,
some commands provide details about the possible values when
displaying completions.  For instance, <kbd class="kbd">C-h o TAB</kbd> will then
include the first line of the doc string, and will also say whether
each symbol is a function or a variable (and so on).  Which details
are included varies depending on the command used.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Apropos">
<h3 class="section" id="Apropos-1">11.4 Apropos</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-apropos"></a>

<p>The <em class="dfn">apropos</em> commands answer questions like, &#8220;What are the
commands for working with files?&#8221;  More precisely, you specify your
query as an <em class="dfn">apropos pattern</em>, which is either a word, a list of
words, or a regular expression.
</p>
<p>Each of the following apropos commands reads an apropos pattern in
the minibuffer, searches for items that match the pattern, and
displays the results in a different window.
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-apropos_002dcommand"></a>
<a id="index-C_002dh-a"></a><kbd class="kbd">C-h a</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for commands (<code class="code">apropos-command</code>).  With a prefix argument,
search for noninteractive functions too.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-apropos-1"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-x apropos</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for functions and variables.  Both interactive functions
(commands) and noninteractive functions can be found by this.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-apropos_002duser_002doption"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-x apropos-user-option</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for user-customizable variables.  With a prefix argument,
search for non-customizable variables too.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-apropos_002dvariable"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-x apropos-variable</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for variables.  With a prefix argument, search for
customizable variables only.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-apropos_002dlocal_002dvariable"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-x apropos-local-variable</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for buffer-local variables.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-apropos_002dvalue"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-x apropos-value</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for variables whose values match the specified pattern.  With a
prefix argument, search also for functions with definitions matching
the pattern, and Lisp symbols with properties matching the pattern.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-apropos_002dlocal_002dvalue"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-x apropos-local-value</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for buffer-local variables whose values match the specified
pattern.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a class="index-entry-id" id="index-apropos_002ddocumentation"></a>
<a id="index-C_002dh-d"></a><kbd class="kbd">C-h d</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Search for functions and variables whose documentation strings match
the specified pattern (<code class="code">apropos-documentation</code>).
</p></dd>
</dl>

<p>The simplest kind of apropos pattern is one word.  Anything
containing that word matches the pattern.  Thus, to find commands that
work on files, type <kbd class="kbd">C-h a file <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd>.  This displays a list
of all command names that contain &#8216;<samp class="samp">file</samp>&#8217;, including
<code class="code">copy-file</code>, <code class="code">find-file</code>, and so on.  Each command name
comes with a brief description and a list of keys you can currently
invoke it with.  In our example, it would say that you can invoke
<code class="code">find-file</code> by typing <kbd class="kbd">C-x C-f</kbd>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dwindow_002dselect_002c-and-apropos-commands"></a>
<p>By default, the window showing the apropos buffer with the results
of the query is not selected, but you can cause it to be selected by
customizing the variable <code class="code">help-window-select</code> to any
non-<code class="code">nil</code> value.
</p>
<p>For more information about a function definition, variable or symbol
property listed in an apropos buffer, you can click on it with
<kbd class="kbd">mouse-1</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">mouse-2</kbd>, or move there and type <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>.
</p>
<p>When you specify more than one word in the apropos pattern, a name
must contain at least two of the words in order to match.  Thus, if
you are looking for commands to kill a chunk of text before point, you
could try <kbd class="kbd">C-h a kill back backward behind before <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd>.  The
real command name <code class="code">kill-backward</code> will match that; if there were
a command <code class="code">kill-text-before</code>, it would also match, since it
contains two of the specified words.
</p>
<p>For even greater flexibility, you can specify a regular expression
(see <a class="pxref" href="Search.xhtml#Regexps">Syntax of Regular Expressions</a>).  An apropos pattern is interpreted as a regular
expression if it contains any of the regular expression special
characters, &#8216;<samp class="samp">^$*+?.\[</samp>&#8217;.
</p>
<p>Following the conventions for naming Emacs commands, here are some
words that you&#8217;ll find useful in apropos patterns.  By using them in
<kbd class="kbd">C-h a</kbd>, you will also get a feel for the naming conventions.
</p>
<blockquote class="quotation">
<p>char, line, word, sentence, paragraph, region, page, sexp, list, defun,
rect, buffer, frame, window, face, file, dir, register, mode, beginning, end,
forward, backward, next, previous, up, down, search, goto, kill, delete,
mark, insert, yank, fill, indent, case, change, set, what, list, find,
view, describe, default.
</p></blockquote>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-apropos_002ddo_002dall"></a>
<p>If the variable <code class="code">apropos-do-all</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>, most
apropos commands behave as if they had been given a prefix argument.
There is one exception: <code class="code">apropos-variable</code> without a prefix
argument will always search for all variables, no matter what the
value of <code class="code">apropos-do-all</code> is.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-apropos_002dsort_002dby_002dscores"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-apropos-search-results_002c-order-by-score"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-apropos_002ddocumentation_002dsort_002dby_002dscores"></a>
<p>By default, all apropos commands except <code class="code">apropos-documentation</code>
list their results in alphabetical order.  If the variable
<code class="code">apropos-sort-by-scores</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>, these commands
instead try to guess the relevance of each result, and display the
most relevant ones first.  The <code class="code">apropos-documentation</code> command
lists its results in order of relevance by default; to list them in
alphabetical order, change the variable
<code class="code">apropos-documentation-sort-by-scores</code> to <code class="code">nil</code>.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Help-Mode">
<h3 class="section" id="Help-Mode-Commands">11.5 Help Mode Commands</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dmode"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help-mode"></a>

<p>Help buffers have Help mode as their major mode.  Help mode provides
the same commands as View mode (see <a class="pxref" href="Display.xhtml#View-Mode">View Mode</a>); for instance,
<kbd class="key">SPC</kbd> scrolls forward, and <kbd class="key">DEL</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">S-<kbd class="key">SPC</kbd></kbd> scrolls
backward.  It also provides a few special commands:
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Follow a cross reference at point (<code class="code">help-follow</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">TAB</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Move point forward to the next hyperlink (<code class="code">forward-button</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">S-<kbd class="key">TAB</kbd></kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Move point back to the previous hyperlink (<code class="code">backward-button</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">mouse-1</kbd></dt>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">mouse-2</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Follow a hyperlink that you click on.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">n</kbd></dt>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">p</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Move forward and back between pages in the Help buffer.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-c C-c</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Show all documentation about the symbol at point
(<code class="code">help-follow-symbol</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-c C-f</kbd></dt>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">r</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Go forward in history of help commands (<code class="code">help-go-forward</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-c C-b</kbd></dt>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">l</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Go back in history of help commands (<code class="code">help-go-back</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">s</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>View the source of the current help topic (if any)
(<code class="code">help-view-source</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">i</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Look up the current topic in the manual(s) (<code class="code">help-goto-info</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">I</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Look up the current topic in the Emacs Lisp manual
(<code class="code">help-goto-lispref-info</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">c</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Customize the variable or the face (<code class="code">help-customize</code>).
</p></dd>
</dl>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-hyperlink"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dfollow"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dgo_002dback"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dgo_002dforward"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-RET-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dc-C_002db-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-l-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dc-C_002df-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-r-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<p>When a function name, variable name, or face name (see <a class="pxref" href="Display.xhtml#Faces">Text Faces</a>)
appears in the documentation in the help buffer, it is normally an
underlined <em class="dfn">hyperlink</em>.  To view the associated documentation,
move point there and type <kbd class="key">RET</kbd> (<code class="code">help-follow</code>), or click on
the hyperlink with <kbd class="kbd">mouse-1</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">mouse-2</kbd>.  Doing so replaces
the contents of the help buffer; to retrace your steps, type <kbd class="kbd">C-c
C-b</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">l</kbd> (<code class="code">help-go-back</code>).  While retracing your steps,
you can go forward by using <kbd class="kbd">C-c C-f</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">r</kbd>
(<code class="code">help-go-forward</code>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-TAB-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-forward_002dbutton"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-S_002dTAB-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-backward_002dbutton"></a>
<p>To move between hyperlinks in a help buffer, use <kbd class="key">TAB</kbd>
(<code class="code">forward-button</code>) to move forward to the next hyperlink and
<kbd class="kbd">S-<kbd class="key">TAB</kbd></kbd> (<code class="code">backward-button</code>) to move back to the
previous hyperlink.  These commands act cyclically; for instance,
typing <kbd class="key">TAB</kbd> at the last hyperlink moves back to the first
hyperlink.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dclean_002dbuttons"></a>
<p>By default, many links in the help buffer are displayed surrounded
by quote characters.  If the <code class="code">help-clean-buttons</code> user option is
non-<code class="code">nil</code>, these quote characters are removed from the buffer.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-n-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-p-_0028Help-mode_0029"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dgoto_002dnext_002dpage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dgoto_002dprevious_002dpage"></a>
<p>Help buffers produced by some Help commands (like <kbd class="kbd">C-h b</kbd>, which
shows a long list of key bindings) are divided into pages by the
&#8216;<samp class="samp">^L</samp>&#8217; character.  In such buffers, the <kbd class="kbd">n</kbd>
(<code class="code">help-goto-next-page</code>) command will take you to the next start
of page, and the <kbd class="kbd">p</kbd> (<code class="code">help-goto-previous-page</code>) command will
take you to the previous start of page.  This way you can quickly
navigate between the different kinds of documentation in a help
buffer.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-URL_002c-viewing-in-help"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002c-viewing-web-pages"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-viewing-web-pages-in-help"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-web-pages_002c-viewing-in-help"></a>
<p>A help buffer can also contain hyperlinks to Info manuals, source
code definitions, and URLs (web pages).  The first two are opened in
Emacs, and the third using a web browser via the <code class="code">browse-url</code>
command (see <a class="pxref" href="Hyperlinking.xhtml#Browse_002dURL">Following URLs</a>).
</p>
<p>To view all documentation about any symbol in the text, move point
to the symbol and type <kbd class="kbd">C-c C-c</kbd> (<code class="code">help-follow-symbol</code>).
This shows the documentation for all the meanings of the symbol&#8212;as a
variable, as a function, and/or as a face.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Package-Keywords">
<h3 class="section" id="Keyword-Search-for-Packages">11.6 Keyword Search for Packages</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-finder"></a>

<p>Most optional features in Emacs are grouped into <em class="dfn">packages</em>.
Emacs contains several hundred built-in packages, and more can be
installed over the network (see <a class="pxref" href="Packages.xhtml#Packages">Emacs Lisp Packages</a>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-p"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-finder_002dby_002dkeyword"></a>
<p>To make it easier to find packages related to a topic, most packages
are associated with one or more <em class="dfn">keywords</em> based on what they do.
Type <kbd class="kbd">C-h p</kbd> (<code class="code">finder-by-keyword</code>) to bring up a list of
package keywords, together with a description of what the keywords
mean.  To view a list of packages for a given keyword, type <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>
on that line; this displays the list of packages in a Package Menu
buffer (see <a class="pxref" href="Packages.xhtml#Package-Menu">The Package Menu Buffer</a>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dpackage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-P"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h P</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-package</code>) prompts for the name of a
package (see <a class="pxref" href="Packages.xhtml#Packages">Emacs Lisp Packages</a>), and displays a help buffer describing the
attributes of the package and the features that it implements.  The
buffer lists the keywords that relate to the package in the form of
buttons.  Click on a button with <kbd class="kbd">mouse-1</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">mouse-2</kbd> to see
the list of other packages related to that keyword.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Language-Help">
<h3 class="section" id="Help-for-International-Language-Support">11.7 Help for International Language Support</h3>

<p>For information on a specific language environment (see <a class="pxref" href="International.xhtml#Language-Environments">Language Environments</a>), type <kbd class="kbd">C-h L</kbd>
(<code class="code">describe-language-environment</code>).  This displays a help buffer
describing the languages supported by the language environment, and
listing the associated character sets, coding systems, and input
methods, as well as some sample text for that language environment.
</p>
<p>The command <kbd class="kbd">C-h h</kbd> (<code class="code">view-hello-file</code>) displays the file
<samp class="file">etc/HELLO</samp>, which demonstrates various character sets by showing
how to say &#8220;hello&#8221; in many languages.
</p>
<p>The command <kbd class="kbd">C-h I</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-input-method</code>) describes an
input method&#8212;either a specified input method, or by default the
input method currently in use.  See <a class="xref" href="International.xhtml#Input-Methods">Input Methods</a>.
</p>
<p>The command <kbd class="kbd">C-h C</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-coding-system</code>) describes
coding systems&#8212;either a specified coding system, or the ones
currently in use.  See <a class="xref" href="International.xhtml#Coding-Systems">Coding Systems</a>.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Misc-Help">
<h3 class="section" id="Other-Help-Commands">11.8 Other Help Commands</h3>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-i"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-4-i"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-info"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-info_002dother_002dwindow"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Info"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-manuals_002c-included"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h i</kbd> (<code class="code">info</code>) runs the Info program, which browses
structured documentation files.  <kbd class="kbd">C-h 4 i</kbd>
(<code class="code">info-other-window</code>) does the same, but shows the Info buffer in
another window.  The entire Emacs manual is available within Info,
along with many other manuals for the GNU system.  Type <kbd class="kbd">h</kbd> after
entering Info to run a tutorial on using Info.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-find-Info-manual-by-its-file-name"></a>
<p>With a numeric argument <var class="var">n</var>, <kbd class="kbd">C-h i</kbd> selects the Info buffer
&#8216;<samp class="samp">*info*&lt;<var class="var">n</var>&gt;</samp>&#8217;.  This is useful if you want to browse multiple
Info manuals simultaneously.  If you specify just <kbd class="kbd">C-u</kbd> as the
prefix argument, <kbd class="kbd">C-h i</kbd> prompts for the name of a documentation
file, so you can browse a file which doesn&#8217;t have an entry in the
top-level Info menu.
</p>
<p>The help commands <kbd class="kbd">C-h F <var class="var">function</var> <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd> and <kbd class="kbd">C-h
K <var class="var">key</var></kbd>, described above, enter Info and go straight to the
documentation of <var class="var">function</var> or <var class="var">key</var>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-S"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-info_002dlookup_002dsymbol"></a>
<p>When editing a program, if you have an Info version of the manual
for the programming language, you can use <kbd class="kbd">C-h S</kbd>
(<code class="code">info-lookup-symbol</code>) to find an entry for a symbol (keyword,
function or variable) in the proper manual.  The details of how this
command works depend on the major mode.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-l"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002dlossage"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lossage_002dsize"></a>
<p>If something surprising happens, and you are not sure what you typed,
use <kbd class="kbd">C-h l</kbd> (<code class="code">view-lossage</code>).  <kbd class="kbd">C-h l</kbd> displays your last
input keystrokes and the commands they invoked.  By default, Emacs
stores the last 300 keystrokes; if you wish, you can change this number with
the command <code class="code">lossage-size</code>.
If you see commands that you are not familiar with, you can use <kbd class="kbd">C-h k</kbd> or
<kbd class="kbd">C-h f</kbd> to find out what they do.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-e"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002decho_002darea_002dmessages"></a>
<p>To review recent echo area messages, use <kbd class="kbd">C-h e</kbd>
(<code class="code">view-echo-area-messages</code>).  This displays the buffer
<samp class="file">*Messages*</samp>, where those messages are kept.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-m"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dmode"></a>
<p>Each Emacs major mode typically redefines a few keys and makes other
changes in how editing works.  <kbd class="kbd">C-h m</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-mode</code>)
displays documentation on the current major mode, which normally
describes the commands and features that are changed in this mode, and
also its key bindings.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-b"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dbindings"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-s"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dsyntax"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h b</kbd> (<code class="code">describe-bindings</code>) and <kbd class="kbd">C-h s</kbd>
(<code class="code">describe-syntax</code>) show other information about the current
environment within Emacs.  <kbd class="kbd">C-h b</kbd> displays a list of all the key
bindings now in effect: first the local bindings of the current minor
modes, then the local bindings defined by the current major mode, and
finally the global bindings (see <a class="pxref" href="Customization.xhtml#Key-Bindings">Customizing Key Bindings</a>).  <kbd class="kbd">C-h s</kbd>
displays the contents of the syntax table, with explanations of each
character&#8217;s syntax (see <a href="https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/elisp/Syntax-Tables.html#Syntax-Tables">Syntax Tables</a> in <cite class="cite">The
Emacs Lisp Reference Manual</cite>).
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dq"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dquick_002dtoggle"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dquick"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-cheat-sheet-of-popular-Emacs-commands"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-q</kbd> (<code class="code">help-quick-toggle</code>) toggles on and off the
display of a buffer showing the most popular Emacs commands and their
respective key bindings (a.k.a. &#8220;cheat sheet&#8221;).  The contents of
that buffer are created by the command <code class="code">help-quick</code>.  Each key
binding shown in this buffer is a button: click on it with
<kbd class="kbd">mouse-1</kbd> or <kbd class="kbd">mouse-2</kbd> to show the documentation of the
command bound to that key sequence.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dprefix_002dbindings"></a>
<p>You can get a list of subcommands for a particular prefix key by
typing <kbd class="kbd">C-h</kbd>, <kbd class="kbd">?</kbd>, or <kbd class="key">F1</kbd>
(<code class="code">describe-prefix-bindings</code>) after the prefix key.  (There are a
few prefix keys for which not all of these keys work&#8212;those that
provide their own bindings for that key.  One of these prefix keys
is <kbd class="key">ESC</kbd>, because <kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">ESC</kbd> C-h</kbd> and <kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">ESC</kbd> ?</kbd> are
actually <kbd class="kbd">C-M-h</kbd> (<code class="code">mark-defun</code>) and <kbd class="kbd">M-?</kbd>
(<code class="code">xref-find-references</code>), respectively.  However,
<kbd class="kbd"><kbd class="key">ESC</kbd>&#160;<kbd class="key">F1</kbd></kbd><!-- /@w --> works fine.)
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dkeymap"></a>
<p>Finally, <kbd class="kbd">M-x describe-keymap</kbd> prompts for the name of a keymap,
with completion, and displays a listing of all key bindings in that
keymap.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Help-Files">
<h3 class="section" id="Help-Files-1">11.9 Help Files</h3>

<p>Apart from the built-in documentation and manuals, Emacs contains
several other files describing topics like copying conditions, release
notes, instructions for debugging and reporting bugs, and so forth.
You can use the following commands to view these files.  Apart from
<kbd class="kbd">C-h g</kbd>, they all have the form <kbd class="kbd">C-h C-<var class="var">char</var></kbd>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dc"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dcopying"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dd"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002demacs_002ddebugging"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002de"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002dexternal_002dpackages"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002df"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002demacs_002dFAQ"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-g"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dgnu_002dproject"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dm"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002dorder_002dmanuals"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dn"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002demacs_002dnews"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002do"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002ddistribution"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dp"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002demacs_002dproblems"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dt"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-view_002demacs_002dtodo"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-C_002dw"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-describe_002dno_002dwarranty"></a>

<dl class="table">
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-c</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the rules under which you can copy and redistribute Emacs
(<code class="code">describe-copying</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-d</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display help for debugging Emacs (<code class="code">view-emacs-debugging</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-e</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display information about where to get external packages
(<code class="code">view-external-packages</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-f</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the Emacs frequently-answered-questions list (<code class="code">view-emacs-FAQ</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h g</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Visit the <a class="uref" href="https://www.gnu.org">page</a> with information about the GNU
Project (<code class="code">describe-gnu-project</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-m</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display information about ordering printed copies of Emacs manuals
(<code class="code">view-order-manuals</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-n</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the news, which lists the new features in this
version of Emacs (<code class="code">view-emacs-news</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-o</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display how to order or download the latest version of
Emacs and other GNU software (<code class="code">describe-distribution</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-p</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the list of known Emacs problems, sometimes with suggested
workarounds (<code class="code">view-emacs-problems</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-t</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the Emacs to-do list (<code class="code">view-emacs-todo</code>).
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">C-h C-w</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Display the full details on the complete absence of warranty for GNU
Emacs (<code class="code">describe-no-warranty</code>).
</p></dd>
</dl>

</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Help-Echo">
<h3 class="section" id="Help-on-Active-Text-and-Tooltips">11.10 Help on Active Text and Tooltips</h3>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-tooltip-help"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-balloon-help"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-active-text"></a>
<p>In Emacs, stretches of <em class="dfn">active text</em> (text that does something
special in response to mouse clicks or <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>) often have
associated help text.  This includes hyperlinks in Emacs buffers, as
well as parts of the mode line.  On graphical displays, as well as
some text terminals which support mouse tracking, moving the mouse
over the active text displays the help text as a <em class="dfn">tooltip</em>.
See <a class="xref" href="Frames.xhtml#Tooltips">Tooltips</a>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-C_002dh-_002e"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-display_002dlocal_002dhelp"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-help_002dat_002dpt_002ddisplay_002dwhen_002didle"></a>
<p>On terminals that don&#8217;t support mouse-tracking, you can display the
help text for active buffer text at point by typing <kbd class="kbd">C-h .</kbd>
(<code class="code">display-local-help</code>).  This shows the help text in the echo
area.  To display help text automatically whenever it is available at
point, set the variable <code class="code">help-at-pt-display-when-idle</code> to
<code class="code">t</code>.
</p></div>
</div>



</body>
</html>
