<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>10 Running Commands by Name (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="10 Running Commands by Name (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="10 Running Commands by Name (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Help.xhtml#Help" rel="next" title="11 Help"/>
<link href="Minibuffer.xhtml#Minibuffer" rel="prev" title="9 The Minibuffer"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
div.example {margin-left: 3.2em}
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="M_002dx">

<h2 class="chapter" id="Running-Commands-by-Name">10 Running Commands by Name</h2>

<p>Every Emacs command has a name that you can use to run it.  For
convenience, many commands also have key bindings.  You can run those
commands by typing the keys, or run them by name.  Most Emacs commands
have no key bindings, so the only way to run them is by name.
(See <a class="xref" href="Customization.xhtml#Key-Bindings">Customizing Key Bindings</a>, for how to set up key bindings.)
</p>
<p>By convention, a command name consists of one or more words,
separated by hyphens; for example, <code class="code">auto-fill-mode</code> or
<code class="code">manual-entry</code>.  Command names mostly use complete English words
to make them easier to remember.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-M_002dx"></a>
<p>To run a command by name, start with <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd>, type the command
name, then terminate it with <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>.  <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> uses the minibuffer
to read the command name.  The string &#8216;<samp class="samp">M-x</samp>&#8217; appears at the
beginning of the minibuffer as a <em class="dfn">prompt</em> to remind you to enter a
command name to be run.  <kbd class="key">RET</kbd> exits the minibuffer and runs the
command.  See <a class="xref" href="Minibuffer.xhtml#Minibuffer">The Minibuffer</a>, for more information on the minibuffer.
</p>
<p>You can use completion to enter the command name.  For example,
to invoke the command <code class="code">forward-char</code>, you can type
</p>
<div class="example">
<pre class="example-preformatted">M-x forward-char <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>
</pre></div>

<p>or
</p>
<div class="example">
<pre class="example-preformatted">M-x forw <kbd class="key">TAB</kbd> c <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>
</pre></div>

<p>Note that <code class="code">forward-char</code> is the same command that you invoke with
the key <kbd class="kbd">C-f</kbd>.  The existence of a key binding does not stop you
from running the command by name.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-obsolete-command"></a>
<p>When <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> completes on commands, it ignores the commands that
were declared <em class="dfn">obsolete</em> in any previous major version of Emacs;
for these, you will have to type their full name.  Commands that were
marked obsolete in the current version of Emacs are listed.  (Obsolete
commands are those for which newer, better alternatives exist, and
which are slated for removal in some future Emacs release.)
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-read_002dextended_002dcommand_002dpredicate"></a>
<p>In addition, <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> completion can exclude commands that are not
relevant to, and generally cannot work with, the current buffer&#8217;s
major mode (see <a class="pxref" href="Modes.xhtml#Major-Modes">Major Modes</a>) and minor modes (see <a class="pxref" href="Modes.xhtml#Minor-Modes">Minor Modes</a>).  By default, no commands are excluded, but you can customize
the option <code class="code">read-extended-command-predicate</code> to exclude those
irrelevant commands from completion results.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-M_002dS_002dx"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-M_002dX"></a>
<p>Conversely, Emacs can exclude all commands except those that are
particularly relevant to the current buffer.  The <kbd class="kbd">M-S-x</kbd> (that&#8217;s
&#8220;meta shift x&#8221;) command works just like <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd>, but instead of
listing all (or most) of the commands Emacs knows about, it will only
list the commands that have been marked as &#8220;belonging&#8221; to the
current major mode, or any enabled minor modes.
</p>
<p>To cancel the <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> and not run a command, type <kbd class="kbd">C-g</kbd> instead
of entering the command name.  This takes you back to command level.
</p>
<p>To pass a numeric argument to the command you are invoking with
<kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd>, specify the numeric argument before <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd>.  The
argument value appears in the prompt while the command name is being
read, and finally <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> passes the argument to that command.  For
example, to pass the numeric argument of 42 to the command
<code class="code">forward-char</code> you can type <kbd class="kbd">C-u 42 M-x forward-char
<kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-suggest_002dkey_002dbindings"></a>
<p>When the command you run with <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> has a key binding, Emacs
mentions this in the echo area after running the command.  For
example, if you type <kbd class="kbd">M-x forward-word</kbd>, the message says that you
can run the same command by typing <kbd class="kbd">M-f</kbd>.  You can turn off these
messages by setting the variable <code class="code">suggest-key-bindings</code> to
<code class="code">nil</code>.  The value of <code class="code">suggest-key-bindings</code> can also be a
number, in which case Emacs will show the binding for that many
seconds before removing it from display.  The default behavior is to
display the binding for 2 seconds.
</p>
<p>Additionally, when <code class="code">suggest-key-bindings</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>, the
completion list of <kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> shows equivalent key bindings for all
commands that have them.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-extended_002dcommand_002dsuggest_002dshorter"></a>
<p>Commands that don&#8217;t have key bindings, can still be invoked after
typing less than their full name at the &#8216;<samp class="samp">M-x</samp>&#8217; prompt.  Emacs
mentions such shorthands in the echo area if they are significantly
shorter than the full command name, and
<code class="code">extended-command-suggest-shorter</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>.  The
setting of <code class="code">suggest-key-bindings</code> affects these hints as well.
</p>
<p>In this manual, when we speak of running a command by name, we often
omit the <kbd class="key">RET</kbd> that terminates the name.  Thus we might say
<kbd class="kbd">M-x auto-fill-mode</kbd> rather than <kbd class="kbd">M-x&#160;auto-fill-mode&#160;<kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd><!-- /@w -->.  We mention the <kbd class="key">RET</kbd> only for emphasis, such as when
the command is followed by arguments.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-execute_002dextended_002dcommand"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">M-x</kbd> works by running the command
<code class="code">execute-extended-command</code>, which is responsible for reading the
name of another command and invoking it.
</p></div>



</body>
</html>
