<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>41 Printing Hard Copies (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="41 Printing Hard Copies (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="41 Printing Hard Copies (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Sorting.xhtml" rel="next" title="42 Sorting Text"/>
<link href="Emacs-Server.xhtml#Emacs-Server" rel="prev" title="40 Using Emacs as a Server"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Printing">

<h2 class="chapter section-level-set-chapter" id="Printing-Hard-Copies">41 Printing Hard Copies</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-hardcopy"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-printing"></a>

<p>Emacs provides commands for printing hardcopies of either an entire
buffer or part of one.  You can invoke the printing commands directly,
as detailed below, or using the &#8216;<samp class="samp">File</samp>&#8217; menu on the menu bar.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-htmlfontify_002dbuffer"></a>
<p>Aside from the commands described in this section, you can also
print hardcopies from Dired (see <a class="pxref" href="Dired.xhtml#Operating-on-Files">Operating on Files</a>) and the diary
(see <a class="pxref" href="Calendar_002fDiary.xhtml#Displaying-the-Diary">Displaying the Diary</a>).  You can also &#8220;print&#8221; an Emacs
buffer to HTML with the command <kbd class="kbd">M-x htmlfontify-buffer</kbd>, which
converts the current buffer to a HTML file, replacing Emacs faces with
CSS-based markup.  Furthermore, Org mode allows you to print Org
files to a variety of formats, such as PDF (see <a class="pxref" href="Text.xhtml#Org-Mode">Org Mode</a>).
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x print-buffer</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Print hardcopy of current buffer with page headings containing the
file name and page number.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x lpr-buffer</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Print hardcopy of current buffer without page headings.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x print-region</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Like <code class="code">print-buffer</code> but print only the current region.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x lpr-region</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Like <code class="code">lpr-buffer</code> but print only the current region.
</p></dd>
</dl>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-print_002dbuffer"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-print_002dregion"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lpr_002dbuffer"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lpr_002dregion"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lpr_002dswitches"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lpr_002dcommands"></a>
<p>On most operating systems, the above hardcopy commands submit files
for printing by calling the <code class="command">lpr</code> program.  To change the
printer program, customize the variable <code class="code">lpr-command</code>.  To
specify extra switches to give the printer program, customize the list
variable <code class="code">lpr-switches</code>.  Its value should be a list of option
strings, each of which should start with &#8216;<samp class="samp">-</samp>&#8217; (e.g., the option
string <code class="code">&quot;-w80&quot;</code> specifies a line width of 80 columns).  The
default is the empty list, <code class="code">nil</code>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-printer_002dname"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lpr_002dprinter_002dswitch"></a>
<p>To specify the printer to use, set the variable <code class="code">printer-name</code>.
The default, <code class="code">nil</code>, specifies the default printer.  If you set it
to a printer name (a string), that name is passed to <code class="command">lpr</code>
with the &#8216;<samp class="samp">-P</samp>&#8217; switch; if you are not using <code class="command">lpr</code>, you
should specify the switch with <code class="code">lpr-printer-switch</code>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lpr_002dheaders_002dswitches"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-lpr_002dadd_002dswitches"></a>
<p>The variable <code class="code">lpr-headers-switches</code> similarly specifies the
extra switches to use to make page headers.  The variable
<code class="code">lpr-add-switches</code> controls whether to supply &#8216;<samp class="samp">-T</samp>&#8217; and
&#8216;<samp class="samp">-J</samp>&#8217; options (suitable for <code class="command">lpr</code>) to the printer program:
<code class="code">nil</code> means don&#8217;t add them (this should be the value if your
printer program is not compatible with <code class="command">lpr</code>).
</p>

<div class="section-level-extent" id="PostScript">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="PostScript-Hardcopy">41.1 PostScript Hardcopy</h3>

<p>These commands convert buffer contents to PostScript,
either printing it or leaving it in another Emacs buffer.
</p>
<dl class="table">
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-print-buffer</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Print hardcopy of the current buffer in PostScript form.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-print-region</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Print hardcopy of the current region in PostScript form.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-print-buffer-with-faces</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Print hardcopy of the current buffer in PostScript form, showing the
faces used in the text by means of PostScript features.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-print-region-with-faces</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Print hardcopy of the current region in PostScript form, showing the
faces used in the text.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-spool-buffer</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current buffer text.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-spool-region</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current region.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-spool-buffer-with-faces</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current buffer, showing the faces used.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-spool-region-with-faces</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Generate and spool a PostScript image for the current region, showing the faces used.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x ps-despool</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Send the spooled PostScript to the printer.
</p></dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x handwrite</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Generate/print PostScript for the current buffer as if handwritten.
</p></dd>
</dl>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dprint_002dregion"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dprint_002dbuffer"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dprint_002dregion_002dwith_002dfaces"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dprint_002dbuffer_002dwith_002dfaces"></a>
<p>The <code class="code">ps-print-buffer</code> and <code class="code">ps-print-region</code> commands print
buffer contents in PostScript form.  One command prints the entire
buffer; the other, just the region.  The commands
<code class="code">ps-print-buffer-with-faces</code> and
<code class="code">ps-print-region-with-faces</code> behave similarly, but use PostScript
features to show the faces (fonts and colors) of the buffer text.
</p>
<p>Interactively, when you use a prefix argument (<kbd class="kbd">C-u</kbd>), these commands
prompt the user for a file name, and save the PostScript image in that file
instead of sending it to the printer.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dspool_002dregion"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dspool_002dbuffer"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dspool_002dregion_002dwith_002dfaces"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dspool_002dbuffer_002dwith_002dfaces"></a>
<p>The commands whose names have &#8216;<samp class="samp">spool</samp>&#8217; instead of &#8216;<samp class="samp">print</samp>&#8217;,
generate the PostScript output in an Emacs buffer instead of sending
it to the printer.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002ddespool"></a>
<p>Use the command <code class="code">ps-despool</code> to send the spooled images to the
printer.  This command sends the PostScript generated by
&#8216;<samp class="samp">-spool-</samp>&#8217; commands (see commands above) to the printer.  With a
prefix argument (<kbd class="kbd">C-u</kbd>), it prompts for a file name, and saves the
spooled PostScript image in that file instead of sending it to the
printer.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-handwrite"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-handwriting"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">M-x handwrite</kbd> is more frivolous.  It generates a PostScript
rendition of the current buffer as a cursive handwritten document.  It
can be customized in group <code class="code">handwrite</code>.  This function only
supports ISO 8859-1 characters.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="PostScript-Variables">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="Variables-for-PostScript-Hardcopy">41.2 Variables for PostScript Hardcopy</h3>

<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dlpr_002dcommand"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dlpr_002dswitches"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dprinter_002dname"></a>
<p>All the PostScript hardcopy commands use the variables
<code class="code">ps-lpr-command</code> and <code class="code">ps-lpr-switches</code> to specify how to print
the output.  <code class="code">ps-lpr-command</code> specifies the command name to run,
<code class="code">ps-lpr-switches</code> specifies command line options to use, and
<code class="code">ps-printer-name</code> specifies the printer.  If you don&#8217;t set the
first two variables yourself, they take their initial values from
<code class="code">lpr-command</code> and <code class="code">lpr-switches</code>.  If <code class="code">ps-printer-name</code>
is <code class="code">nil</code>, <code class="code">printer-name</code> is used.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dprint_002dheader"></a>
<p>The variable <code class="code">ps-print-header</code> controls whether these commands
add header lines to each page&#8212;set it to <code class="code">nil</code> to turn headers
off.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-color-emulation-on-black_002dand_002dwhite-printers"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dprint_002dcolor_002dp"></a>
<p>If your printer doesn&#8217;t support colors, you should turn off color
processing by setting <code class="code">ps-print-color-p</code> to <code class="code">nil</code>.  By
default, if the display supports colors, Emacs produces hardcopy
output with color information; on black-and-white printers, colors are
emulated with shades of gray.  This might produce barely-readable or
even illegible output, even if your screen colors only use shades of
gray.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dblack_002dwhite_002dfaces"></a>
<p>Alternatively, you can set <code class="code">ps-print-color-p</code> to <code class="code">black-white</code>
to have colors display better on black/white printers.  This works by
using information in <code class="code">ps-black-white-faces</code> to express colors by
customizable list of shades of gray, augmented by bold and italic
face attributes.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002duse_002dface_002dbackground"></a>
<p>By default, PostScript printing ignores the background colors of the
faces, unless the variable <code class="code">ps-use-face-background</code> is
non-<code class="code">nil</code>.  This is to avoid unwanted interference with the zebra
stripes and background image/text.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dpaper_002dtype"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dpage_002ddimensions_002ddatabase"></a>
<p>The variable <code class="code">ps-paper-type</code> specifies which size of paper to
format for; legitimate values include <code class="code">a4</code>, <code class="code">a3</code>,
<code class="code">a4small</code>, <code class="code">b4</code>, <code class="code">b5</code>, <code class="code">executive</code>, <code class="code">ledger</code>,
<code class="code">legal</code>, <code class="code">letter</code>, <code class="code">letter-small</code>, <code class="code">statement</code>,
<code class="code">tabloid</code>.  The default is <code class="code">letter</code>.  You can define
additional paper sizes by changing the variable
<code class="code">ps-page-dimensions-database</code>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dlandscape_002dmode"></a>
<p>The variable <code class="code">ps-landscape-mode</code> specifies the orientation of
printing on the page.  The default is <code class="code">nil</code>, which stands for
portrait mode.  Any non-<code class="code">nil</code> value specifies landscape
mode.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dnumber_002dof_002dcolumns"></a>
<p>The variable <code class="code">ps-number-of-columns</code> specifies the number of
columns; it takes effect in both landscape and portrait mode.  The
default is 1.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dfont_002dfamily"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dfont_002dsize"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dfont_002dinfo_002ddatabase"></a>
<p>The variable <code class="code">ps-font-family</code> specifies which font family to use
for printing ordinary text.  Legitimate values include <code class="code">Courier</code>,
<code class="code">Helvetica</code>, <code class="code">NewCenturySchlbk</code>, <code class="code">Palatino</code> and
<code class="code">Times</code>.  The variable <code class="code">ps-font-size</code> specifies the size of
the font for ordinary text and defaults to 8.5 points.  The value of
<code class="code">ps-font-size</code> can also be a cons of 2 floats: one for landscape
mode, the other for portrait mode.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-ps_002dmultibyte_002dbuffer"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Intlfonts-for-PostScript-printing"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-fonts-for-PostScript-printing"></a>
<p>Emacs supports more scripts and characters than a typical PostScript
printer.  Thus, some of the characters in your buffer might not be
printable using the fonts built into your printer.  You can augment
the fonts supplied with the printer with those from the GNU Intlfonts
package, or you can instruct Emacs to use Intlfonts exclusively.  The
variable <code class="code">ps-multibyte-buffer</code> controls this: the default value,
<code class="code">nil</code>, is appropriate for printing <abbr class="acronym">ASCII</abbr> and Latin-1
characters; a value of <code class="code">non-latin-printer</code> is for printers which
have the fonts for <abbr class="acronym">ASCII</abbr>, Latin-1, Japanese, and Korean
characters built into them.  A value of <code class="code">bdf-font</code> arranges for
the BDF fonts from the Intlfonts package to be used for <em class="emph">all</em>
characters.  Finally, a value of <code class="code">bdf-font-except-latin</code>
instructs the printer to use built-in fonts for <abbr class="acronym">ASCII</abbr> and Latin-1
characters, and Intlfonts BDF fonts for the rest.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-bdf_002ddirectory_002dlist"></a>
<p>To be able to use the BDF fonts, Emacs needs to know where to find
them.  The variable <code class="code">bdf-directory-list</code> holds the list of
directories where Emacs should look for the fonts; the default value
includes a single directory <samp class="file">/usr/local/share/emacs/fonts/bdf</samp>.
</p>
<p>Many other customization variables for these commands are defined and
described in the Lisp files <samp class="file">ps-print.el</samp> and <samp class="file">ps-mule.el</samp>.
</p>
</div>
<div class="section-level-extent" id="Printing-Package">
<h3 class="section subsection-level-set-section" id="Printing-Package-1">41.3 Printing Package</h3>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-Printing-package"></a>

<p>The basic Emacs facilities for printing hardcopy can be extended
using the Printing package.  This provides an easy-to-use interface
for choosing what to print, previewing PostScript files before
printing, and setting various printing options such as print headers,
landscape or portrait modes, duplex modes, and so forth.  On GNU/Linux
or Unix systems, the Printing package relies on the <samp class="file">gs</samp> and
<samp class="file">gv</samp> utilities, which are distributed as part of the GhostScript
program.  On MS-Windows, the <samp class="file">gstools</samp> port of Ghostscript can be
used.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-pr_002dinterface"></a>
<p>To use the Printing package, add <code class="code">(require 'printing)</code> to your
init file (see <a class="pxref" href="Customization.xhtml#Init-File">The Emacs Initialization File</a>), followed by <code class="code">(pr-update-menus)</code>.
This function replaces the usual printing commands in the menu bar
with a &#8216;<samp class="samp">Printing</samp>&#8217; submenu that contains various printing options.
You can also type <kbd class="kbd">M-x pr-interface <kbd class="key">RET</kbd></kbd>; this creates a
<samp class="file">*Printing Interface*</samp> buffer, similar to a customization buffer,
where you can set the printing options.  After selecting what and how
to print, you start the print job using the &#8216;<samp class="samp">Print</samp>&#8217; button (click
<kbd class="kbd">mouse-2</kbd> on it, or move point over it and type <kbd class="key">RET</kbd>).  For
further information on the various options, use the &#8216;<samp class="samp">Interface
Help</samp>&#8217; button.
</p>
</div>
</div>



</body>
</html>
