<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!-- Created by GNU Texinfo 7.1, https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/ -->
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<!-- 这是 GNU Emacs 手册,
为 Emacs  29.2 更新

英文原版版权提示 - Original English version copyright note

Copyright © 1985-2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being "The GNU Manifesto," "Distribution" and
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE," with the Front-Cover Texts being "A GNU
Manual," and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License."

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."

中文翻译版版权提示 - Chinese translation revision copyright notice

版权所有 © 1985-2024 林羿轩(Ralph Lin).

您有在 Free Software Foundation发布的GNU Free Documentation License 第1.3版或之后版本的约束下对其进行再发布及修的权利。 恒定章节为 "The GNU Manifesto," "分发" "(中文版)GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" 和
"GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE" , 前封面文字为 "A GNU
Manual,"后封面文字如下(a).  本书的FDL许可证可以在 "GNU Free Documentation
License."找到.

(a) FSF的后封面文字为: "You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom."
 -->
<title>42 Sorting Text (GNU Emacs Manual)</title>

<meta name="description" content="42 Sorting Text (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="keywords" content="42 Sorting Text (GNU Emacs Manual)"/>
<meta name="resource-type" content="document"/>
<meta name="distribution" content="global"/>
<meta name="Generator" content="texi2any"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,initial-scale=1"/>

<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="start" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Key-Index.xhtml" rel="index" title="Key (Character) Index"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml#SEC_Contents" rel="contents" title="Table of Contents"/>
<link href="emacs.xhtml" rel="up" title="Emacs 编辑器"/>
<link href="Picture-Mode.xhtml#Picture-Mode" rel="next" title="43 Editing Pictures"/>
<link href="Printing.xhtml#Printing" rel="prev" title="41 Printing Hard Copies"/>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
div.example {margin-left: 3.2em}
kbd.kbd {font-style: oblique}
kbd.key {font-style: normal}
-->
</style>


</head>

<body lang="zh_CN">
<div class="chapter-level-extent" id="Sorting">

<h2 class="chapter section-level-set-chapter" id="Sorting-Text">42 Sorting Text</h2>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sorting"></a>

<p>Emacs provides several commands for sorting text in the buffer.  All
operate on the contents of the region.
They divide the text of the region into many <em class="dfn">sort records</em>,
identify a <em class="dfn">sort key</em> for each record, and then reorder the records
into the order determined by the sort keys.  The records are ordered so
that their keys are in alphabetical order, or, for numeric sorting, in
numeric order.  In alphabetic sorting, all upper-case letters &#8216;<samp class="samp">A</samp>&#8217;
through &#8216;<samp class="samp">Z</samp>&#8217; come before lower-case &#8216;<samp class="samp">a</samp>&#8217;, in accordance with the
<abbr class="acronym">ASCII</abbr> character sequence (but <code class="code">sort-fold-case</code>,
described below, can change that).
</p>
<p>The various sort commands differ in how they divide the text into sort
records and in which part of each record is used as the sort key.  Most of
the commands make each line a separate sort record, but some commands use
paragraphs or pages as sort records.  Most of the sort commands use each
entire sort record as its own sort key, but some use only a portion of the
record as the sort key.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dlines"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dparagraphs"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dpages"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dfields"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dnumeric_002dfields"></a>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dnumeric_002dbase"></a>
<dl class="table">
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-lines</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Divide the region into lines, and sort by comparing the entire
text of a line.  A numeric argument means sort into descending order.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-paragraphs</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Divide the region into paragraphs, and sort by comparing the entire
text of a paragraph (except for leading blank lines).  A numeric
argument means sort into descending order.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-pages</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Divide the region into pages, and sort by comparing the entire
text of a page (except for leading blank lines).  A numeric
argument means sort into descending order.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-fields</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Divide the region into lines, and sort by comparing the contents of
one field in each line.  Fields are defined as separated by
whitespace, so the first run of consecutive non-whitespace characters
in a line constitutes field 1, the second such run constitutes field
2, etc.
</p>
<p>Specify which field to sort by with a numeric argument: 1 to sort by
field 1, etc.; the default is 1.  A negative argument means count
fields from the right instead of from the left; thus, minus 1 means
sort by the last field.  If several lines have identical contents in
the field being sorted, they keep the same relative order that they
had in the original buffer.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-numeric-fields</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Like <kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-fields</kbd> except the specified field is converted
to an integer for each line, and the numbers are compared.  &#8216;<samp class="samp">10</samp>&#8217;
comes before &#8216;<samp class="samp">2</samp>&#8217; when considered as text, but after it when
considered as a number.  By default, numbers are interpreted according
to <code class="code">sort-numeric-base</code>, but numbers beginning with &#8216;<samp class="samp">0x</samp>&#8217; or
&#8216;<samp class="samp">0</samp>&#8217; are interpreted as hexadecimal and octal, respectively.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-columns</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Like <kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-fields</kbd> except that the text within each line
used for comparison comes from a fixed range of columns.  With a
prefix argument, sort in reverse order.  See below for more details
on this command.
</p>
</dd>
<dt><a id="index-reverse_002dregion"></a><kbd class="kbd">M-x reverse-region</kbd></dt>
<dd><p>Reverse the order of the lines in the region.  This is useful for
sorting into descending order by fields, since those sort
commands do not have a feature for doing that.
</p></dd>
</dl>

<p>For example, if the buffer contains this:
</p>
<div class="example smallexample">
<pre class="example-preformatted">On systems where clash detection (locking of files being edited) is
implemented, Emacs also checks the first time you modify a buffer
whether the file has changed on disk since it was last visited or
saved.  If it has, you are asked to confirm that you want to change
the buffer.
</pre></div>

<p>applying <kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-lines</kbd> to the entire buffer produces this:
</p>
<div class="example smallexample">
<pre class="example-preformatted">On systems where clash detection (locking of files being edited) is
implemented, Emacs also checks the first time you modify a buffer
saved.  If it has, you are asked to confirm that you want to change
the buffer.
whether the file has changed on disk since it was last visited or
</pre></div>

<p>where the upper-case &#8216;<samp class="samp">O</samp>&#8217; sorts before all lower-case letters.  If
you use <kbd class="kbd">C-u 2 M-x sort-fields</kbd> instead, you get this:
</p>
<div class="example smallexample">
<pre class="example-preformatted">implemented, Emacs also checks the first time you modify a buffer
saved.  If it has, you are asked to confirm that you want to change
the buffer.
On systems where clash detection (locking of files being edited) is
whether the file has changed on disk since it was last visited or
</pre></div>

<p>where the sort keys were &#8216;<samp class="samp">Emacs</samp>&#8217;, &#8216;<samp class="samp">If</samp>&#8217;, &#8216;<samp class="samp">buffer</samp>&#8217;,
&#8216;<samp class="samp">systems</samp>&#8217; and &#8216;<samp class="samp">the</samp>&#8217;.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dcolumns"></a>
<p><kbd class="kbd">M-x sort-columns</kbd> requires more explanation.  You specify the
columns by putting point at one of the columns and the mark at the other
column.  Because this means you cannot put point or the mark at the
beginning of the first line of the text you want to sort, this command
uses an unusual definition of &#8220;region&#8221;: all of the line point is in is
considered part of the region, and so is all of the line the mark is in,
as well as all the lines in between.
</p>
<p>For example, to sort a table by information found in columns 10 to 15,
you could put the mark on column 10 in the first line of the table, and
point on column 15 in the last line of the table, and then run
<code class="code">sort-columns</code>.  Equivalently, you could run it with the mark on
column 15 in the first line and point on column 10 in the last line.
</p>
<p>This can be thought of as sorting the rectangle specified by point and
the mark, except that the text on each line to the left or right of the
rectangle moves along with the text inside the rectangle.
See <a class="xref" href="Killing.xhtml#Rectangles">Rectangles</a>.
</p>
<a class="index-entry-id" id="index-sort_002dfold_002dcase"></a>
<p>Many of the sort commands ignore case differences when comparing, if
<code class="code">sort-fold-case</code> is non-<code class="code">nil</code>.
</p>
</div>



</body>
</html>
